 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.