Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.