(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”