With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.