The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.