Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.