The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.Labor discipline was another matter. In the farming and domestic work that people had been doing for generations, “intense activity alternated with slack times,” whereas factory production was repetitive and continuous, requiring “coordinated activity by dozens or hundreds of workers, who were expected to start and stop work at the same time, day after day.”Now that factory work and stable, blue-collar jobs are such potent sources of nostalgia, it can be hard to recall how truly disruptive the manufacturing age was. Freeman does a superb job of reminding us. For an agrarian society like England, the factory generated a wistfulness for the bucolic agricultural past. The “dark Satanic Mills” bemoaned by William Blake were powered by steam and coal-fired boilers that belched smoke and soot. Seventy-hour work weeks were common. Male workers chafed at the constant supervision on the factory floor, and owners preferred not to employ men, anyway. “Today, in the United States, factories are associated with masculinity,” Freeman writes, “but in their early days they were spaces largely occupied by women and children.”Some of the details recounted here are familiar, though still appalling. In the 19th century, textile mills in New England — which were supposed to be gentler than the cruel depredations of the Old World — employed children as young as 4. Factory workers in Britain overwhelmed urban areas, crowding together in squalor. A Manchester official described streets “so covered with refuse and excrementitious matter as to be almost impassable from depth of mud, and intolerable from stench.”As Freeman shows, what started inauspiciously became an engine for material abundance and, in the cases of the United States and the Soviet Union, a source of national pride. Factories, especially steel mills, became the behemoths of the book’s title, consolidations of equipment and labor on a massive scale. Freeman suggests the awe that these enormous structures must have inspired, describing how dignitaries attending the opening of a steel mill in 19th-century Maryland “rode in decorated gondola cars along the route iron ore would take,” ascending to a height of eight stories. Unlike the textile worker, who brought to mind wan images of a young woman or “a sickly child,” steelworkers were often portrayed “as intensely masculine, often bare-chested, with muscles rippling.”With size and strength came strife too, as steel mills became sites for a bitter class war. Start-up costs were high, so a few big firms dominated the industry. Unions organized in response. Steel magnates like Andrew Carnegie resented any incursions on their freedom to set wages and working conditions at will; they wanted the right to squeeze labor to maintain profitability. The Homestead strike of 1892 turned into a literal conflagration, as steelworkers in Pennsylvania set the Monongahela River on fire.