WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.