WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.