Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.