Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”