 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondentAmong Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.“I’ve long felt that if Trump didn’t do well, it would be because of organizational issues,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn’t been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere.”Mr. Elson said Mr. Trump acted more like the typical entrepreneur than an experienced manager. “A problem with entrepreneurs is that people get tired of it and they move on,” he said. “People just get worn out. At some point you need a real manager. A lot of entrepreneurs sell their businesses when they reach a certain size and they realize they can’t manage them.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.But Mr. Trump passed over Mr. Cohn for the post of Federal Reserve chairman. In late December Mr. Cohn told the news site Axios he would still be in the administration three months hence. Earlier this month the time frame seemed to have shrunk. Asked how long he would stay at the White House, Mr. Cohn said only, “I’m here today and I’m here next week.”Professor Smith of N.Y.U. said he hoped Mr. Cohn would leave soon “because his reputation will be mangled if he stays.”“He delivered the tax legislation,” he said. “Whether you agree with it or not, he executed. That’s his skill. And he stood up to the president after Charlottesville. People respect that. I think he could leave now with his reputation intact.”Alone among the prominent Goldman alumni in the administration, Mr. Mnuchin seems likely to stay. “He’s been a good and loyal employee,” Professor Smith said. “But he’s more of a Hollywood person now. His reputation in the professional financial sector may not matter that much to him.”Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci aside, “any so-called exodus may be a function of what they achieved,” Mr. Gingrich said of the Goldman veterans.“There’s nothing on the agenda this year that’s nearly as exciting as reshaping the tax code,” he said. “They worked very hard and tried to do things that were effective. In that sense they were a real asset.”At the same time, Mr. Gingrich contended that Mr. Trump — and not his advisers — deserved the lion’s share of credit for the tax bill, for building confidence in the economy, and for not launching a trade war.“He has a much broader capacity than people in the District of Columbia give him credit for,” Mr. Gingrich said of the president. “People get so wound up in the goofier things he does, the tweets and outrageous statements. But underneath that is a very methodical and pragmatic businessman. He knows how to use competent people.”Whether Mr. Trump can replace the departing Goldman alumni with people of similar stature remains to be seen. Mr. Gingrich pointed to Mr. Trump’s appointment of Jerome Powell as the new Federal Reserve chairman as evidence that he will be able to recruit top economic talent.Professor Smith said anyone considering a job at the White House would have to weigh the high risks of tethering his or her reputation to the Trump presidency. Even so, he said, “you can never underestimate the allure of being a big shot in Washington.’’“Not that many Goldman partners are known outside the firm,’’ he added. “Why hang out at Goldman when you could be having lunch on Mount Olympus?”WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.He cited what have become known as the “chicken wars” of the early 1960s, a trade dispute set off when Germany and France imposed tariffs on American chicken. The United States retaliated by imposing tariffs on an array of goods, including French brandy, light trucks and Volkswagen buses. The United States even threatened to reduce its troop presence in Europe. Despite those pressures, the newly formed European Economic Community did not back down, and in that sense the United States “lost” the war.The biggest losers, though, were American and European consumers deprived of choices in the marketplace and forced to pay higher prices for what was available.There were also unintended consequences. American automakers, insulated from foreign competition by the tariffs, failed to modernize, improve quality or reduce costs, setting the stage for a decades-long decline, which for Chrysler and General Motors ended in bankruptcy.Much the same can be said of the United States steel industry, which since World War II has probably received more protection from tariffs and quotas than any other industry. “They just used the protection to raise prices, fatten profits, pay their executives more and avoid automating and reducing costs,” Professor Conybeare said. “They didn’t use the breathing space they gained to modernize. So much of the U.S. steel industry is using obsolete technology, which is why they can’t compete.”Decades of tariff protection have done little to stem the industry’s decline. Domestic steel employment dropped from 135,000 in 2000 to 83,600 in 2016, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.Much like Mr. Trump, President George W. Bush veered from Republican free trade orthodoxy in 2002 when he imposed tariffs of up to 30 percent on certain steel products to counter what he claimed was a surge of imports (Canada, Mexico and a number of developing countries were exempted). Although the tariffs were loudly condemned by many Republicans, politicians from steel-producing states supported the move and protectionist Democrats like Representative Richard Gephardt of Missouri argued that the measures did not go far enough.The European Union filed charges with the World Trade Organization, which ruled that the tariffs were illegal and discriminatory and authorized up to $2 billion in retaliatory measures. The E.U. threatened tariffs on a variety of American products, including autos and Florida oranges.Mr. Bush abandoned the tariffs in December 2003. He claimed that they had served their purpose, but subsequent studies suggested that they had little impact on employment in the industry and led to a loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs in industries that use steel as a raw material.Mr. Trump’s pronouncements on trade this week “sound like a very archaic, 19th-century argument,” Professor Palen said, referring to a time when protectionism was Republican orthodoxy and Representative William McKinley of Ohio, who later became president, was successfully promoting his Tariff Act of 1890, which raised the average duty on imports to nearly 50 percent.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.He cited what have become known as the “chicken wars” of the early 1960s, a trade dispute set off when Germany and France imposed tariffs on American chicken. The United States retaliated by imposing tariffs on an array of goods, including French brandy, light trucks and Volkswagen buses. The United States even threatened to reduce its troop presence in Europe. Despite those pressures, the newly formed European Economic Community did not back down, and in that sense the United States “lost” the war.The biggest losers, though, were American and European consumers deprived of choices in the marketplace and forced to pay higher prices for what was available.There were also unintended consequences. American automakers, insulated from foreign competition by the tariffs, failed to modernize, improve quality or reduce costs, setting the stage for a decades-long decline, which for Chrysler and General Motors ended in bankruptcy.Much the same can be said of the United States steel industry, which since World War II has probably received more protection from tariffs and quotas than any other industry. “They just used the protection to raise prices, fatten profits, pay their executives more and avoid automating and reducing costs,” Professor Conybeare said. “They didn’t use the breathing space they gained to modernize. So much of the U.S. steel industry is using obsolete technology, which is why they can’t compete.”Decades of tariff protection have done little to stem the industry’s decline. Domestic steel employment dropped from 135,000 in 2000 to 83,600 in 2016, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.Much like Mr. Trump, President George W. Bush veered from Republican free trade orthodoxy in 2002 when he imposed tariffs of up to 30 percent on certain steel products to counter what he claimed was a surge of imports (Canada, Mexico and a number of developing countries were exempted). Although the tariffs were loudly condemned by many Republicans, politicians from steel-producing states supported the move and protectionist Democrats like Representative Richard Gephardt of Missouri argued that the measures did not go far enough.The European Union filed charges with the World Trade Organization, which ruled that the tariffs were illegal and discriminatory and authorized up to $2 billion in retaliatory measures. The E.U. threatened tariffs on a variety of American products, including autos and Florida oranges.Mr. Bush abandoned the tariffs in December 2003. He claimed that they had served their purpose, but subsequent studies suggested that they had little impact on employment in the industry and led to a loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs in industries that use steel as a raw material.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.Long-simmering tensions between Qualcomm and Apple reached a boiling point in 2016, when Qualcomm halted rebates it was giving Apple. Qualcomm claimed Apple had violated the terms of the rebate agreement by cooperating with South Korea’s investigation into what Samsung and others said was exclusionary conduct by Qualcomm. Apple responded by withholding the license fees it paid manufacturers of iPhones, who in turn stopped passing on the payments to Qualcomm.Lawsuits and counterclaims erupted, and Qualcomm reduced its revenue estimates by $500 million a year.While Apple has continued to buy and deploy the latest Qualcomm chips, it also reached out to a rival chip maker, Intel, which began supplying an alternative to Qualcomm’s chip for the iPhone 7. (That phone, the iPhone 8 and the X may contain either a Qualcomm or an Intel chip.)Qualcomm claims that Apple has compromised the performance of Qualcomm-equipped handsets in order to mask their superiority over the Intel-equipped phones. (Both Intel and Apple have vehemently denied the claims.)In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.Still, there are “a few” undervalued opportunities, Mr. Dodson said. He cited the health care sector: The biotech concern Gilead Sciences and the generic-drug maker Perrigo are two of his fund’s largest holdings. The toymaker Mattel “is on the bargain table,” he said. And even in technology, his fund has a large position in Qualcomm, currently fighting a takeover bid by the rival chip-maker Broadcom.If so much is indeed overvalued, then this year’s market could well reward discerning active managers. “I worry about the index funds,” Mr. Dodson said. “They’re getting close to 25 percent in technology, given the high valuations and market caps. If there’s a reversal, it’s going to hit the index funds hard. This may finally be the year that active managers outperform.”Mr. Stack agreed. “Active management isn’t about beating the market but about achieving market gains within a defined acceptance of risk,” he said. “There are selective opportunities, but you have to dig to find them. None are true bargains anymore.”He recently bought shares in the diversified industrial manufacturer Ingersoll Rand and is moving his portfolio toward more defensive positions in consumer staples, energy and materials. “I’d rather be early with portfolio defenses and leave some profits on the table than go into a bear market fully exposed,” he said.Mr. Stack said that in examining bull markets over the past 50 years, he had found that both the technology and energy sectors outperformed in the late stages of a bull market. He said investors “should have some portion of their portfolio in the materials sector, notably energy, which had been so out of favor” until mid-2017.In my outlook column last year, Damien Courvalin, head of energy research for Goldman Sachs’s Global Investment Research commodities team, was uncannily accurate in forecasting that oil prices would recover in 2017 and stabilize at $55 to $60 per barrel. (West Texas intermediate crude oil futures ended the year at $60.42.) So I asked him what his team was predicting this year.“From a total-return perspective, it’s quite compelling to be invested in commodities,” he said — even though he doesn’t see oil prices rising much above current levels by year’s end. That’s because, thanks to the shale oil revolution, producers outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries can easily ramp up production when prices are $60 to $65. But commodities investors can still make a profit, he said, by betting on stable to rising prices in the futures market.Like Mr. Stack, Mr. Courvalin noted that commodities and energy typically do well in the late stages of an economic expansion. Non-energy commodities may do even better, since they have no equivalent to shale and mining companies can’t increase production quickly in response to rising prices. In the mining sector, “margins are improving, orders are picking up, and we’re seeing new investment,” he said.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”Much the same can be said about unemployment, which fell to 4.1 percent from 4.7 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year as president, and which also reflects the tight labor market conditions that have been developing for years. The unemployment rate fell much more during the Obama years (three full percentage points, from when Mr. Obama took office until when he left), which would be expected given the severe recession he inherited.In any event, it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s impact on the labor market. Economists generally agree that at least some of the Republican tax cuts will flow through to workers, although there are widely differing projections about how much, and most say the largest share will go to shareholders in the form of dividends, stock buybacks and higher share prices. Professor Slemrod said we may never know for sure, but “in five or six years we may be able to tell if some of the more extreme claims are reasonable.”It’s interesting what President Trump didn’t claim any credit for: low interest rates and inflation. Perhaps that’s because they’re moving upward, although slowly, and pose the biggest threat to the economic indicators he extolled. (On Wednesday the Federal Reserve kept its benchmark rate unchanged after raising it three times during the last year.)Unlike the 1986 tax legislation, which claimed to be revenue-neutral, the latest Republican bill is a huge tax cut. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new law would add just over $1 trillion to the deficit over the next decade. It predicted higher interest rates as a result, which it estimated would cost the Treasury an additional $66 billion in debt service costs.Some supporters of the tax law contend that economic growth will come so quickly that increased tax revenue will more than make up for the cuts. The actual impact on the deficit won’t be evident for at least a year, but the rising deficits that followed tax cuts in 1981 forced Republicans to raise taxes in both 1982 and 1984.Interest rates are already trending higher. Both Professors Auerbach and Slemrod agreed that rates are likely to rise further and would be an important measure of the impact of the tax legislation and Mr. Trump’s economic policies. If they rise faster than at the cautious pace the Federal Reserve has projected and investors expect, that could bring the stock market rally to an abrupt end. Higher-than-expected rates could also slow the economy, or even tip it into recession.How sensitive the stock market is to interest rates was on display the same day as Mr. Trump’s speech, when shares plunged on fears of higher rates after the 10-year Treasury yield rose above 2.7 percent; that’s still very low by historic standards, but higher than when Mr. Trump took office.The big tax cut is a large economic stimulus, and “right now stimulus is a danger,” said Professor Auerbach, given that there is nearly full employment and already-strong economic growth.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.)He said the credit was “more important for other players who are much further away from the 200,000 United States sales mark.”In theory, the problem shouldn’t be difficult for Congress to fix. One approach would be to lift the 200,000 vehicle cap and continue the credit indefinitely, a move that would most likely be welcomed by makers and consumers of electric vehicles and has the support of green energy lobbying groups. But the price tag for the government could become prohibitive if electric car sales surge.Or Congress could phase out the incentives beginning at a target date that would apply to all manufacturers, or after total industry sales hit a level that suggests a move to electric vehicles is sustainable. Depending on the time or level of sales chosen, that could address concerns about the impact of the tax credit on the deficit.Tesla and G.M. have not proposed a specific fix.Many countries have far more robust subsidies for electric cars than the United States, including most of Europe. Norway has by far the highest percentage of electric car ownership in the world (about one-third of the vehicles sold there last year were electric or hybrid), along with the most lavish subsidies, which include sharply reduced sales taxes as well as free parking and use of uncongested bus lanes. The country has set a goal of zero auto emissions by 2025.While no one expects the United States to go to such an extreme, revising the electric vehicle tax credit and bolstering other incentives for renewable energy could be a rare source of bipartisan agreement. When it comes to jobs, a top priority for both Congress and the Trump administration, the Department of Energy reported that in 2016, 3.38 million Americans were employed in the clean energy sector, 10 percent more than the 2.99 million employed in fossil fuels.How the renewable energy subsidies managed to survive to be part of the tax law remains a subject of debate, but nearly every explanation points in part to Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa, the powerful Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee and a staunch supporter of renewable energy, especially wind. Iowa is a leader in wind power, which generates 36 percent of the state’s electricity. The wind power industry employs 9,000 people in the state, according to the Iowa Wind Energy Association. (Senator Grassley did not respond to requests for comment.)Trying to tamper with the renewable energy subsidies and the electric vehicle credit, as the House version of the tax bill did, “was asking for trouble,” said Dean Zerbe, former tax counsel for the Senate Finance Committee and a national managing director at Alliantgroup, which specializes in tax credits and incentives. “Certain senators wouldn’t budge on that.”With funding for the government scheduled to expire on Jan. 19, and with such a narrow Republican majority in the Senate, Republicans and Democrats in Congress have an incentive to find some common ground, which might include revising the electric vehicle credit.“I’ve talked to quite a few people interested in green energy provisions, and my sense is that you could find quite a bit of bipartisan support in the Senate,” Mr. Zerbe said. He noted that Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the ranking Democrat on the Finance Committee, is a passionate supporter of renewable energy and electric vehicles.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.State lawmakers also passed the Immigrant Worker Protection Act, which prohibits local business from allowing immigration to gain access to employee records without a court order or subpoena. Mr. Becerra warned that anyone who violated the new law would face a fine of up to $10,000.In the state budget bill, California lawmakers prohibited new contracts for immigration detention in the state and gave the state attorney general the power to monitor all state immigration detention centers.The state and several local governments including the cities of San Francisco and Sacramento have also set up legal defense funds to help defend immigrants during deportation proceedings.“I’m worried about the ‘Dreamers,’ hard-working immigrant families and law-abiding people who are just trying to make their way like the rest of us,” Mayor Darrell Steinberg of Sacramento said this year when asked about the state’s sanctuary legislation. “Civil disobedience is a respectful way to show your love for country.”Tensions between local and federal officials reached yet another height last week, when Mayor Libby Schaaf of Oakland publicly warned of coming large-scale immigration arrest operations. Mr. Homan compared the mayor to a “gang lookout yelling, “Police!” and said she gave people living in the United States illegally a chance to flee. He said her warning meant that the federal immigration authorities arrested about 200 people rather than the 1,000 they had anticipated rounding up.Although Mr. Homan and other federal officials have warned about targeting California as it steps up immigration enforcement efforts, the number of people arrested has not drastically increased so far. In December, the most recent month for which data is available, 1,715 unauthorized immigrants in California were arrested by ICE, compared with 1,379 in December 2016.This is not the first time that the Justice Department has sued a state. During the Obama administration, the department filed a civil rights lawsuit against Georgia for segregating students with disabilities from classrooms and sued North Carolina over a bill to restrict bathroom use for transgender citizens. Mr. Sessions withdrew that lawsuit.In a call with reporters on Tuesday night, Mr. Becerra said that he was confident California would prevail in court and that state and federal laws were not in conflict.“In California, our state laws work in concert with federal law,” he said. “Our teams work together to go after drug dealers and go after gang violence. What we won’t do is change from being focused on public safety. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”Mr. Becerra said that he was not surprised by the news of the lawsuit and that the state had already won legal battles against the Trump administration. “We’ve seen this B-rated movie before,” he said. “We’re not doing their bidding on immigration enforcement and deportation.”Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).Of the 20 finalist cities, Indianapolis has the least traffic congestion and the lowest average home prices, according to the Chamber of Commerce. That’s not to say there aren’t high-end options: A 21,000-square-foot, six-bedroom 1930s-era mansion, currently home to the Indiana University chancellor, is on the market for just under $7 million. (It might be perfect for the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos.)For all its virtues, Indianapolis faces a number of hurdles. While Mr. Stutz told me that Salesforce had found an abundance of homegrown tech talent there, Amazon knows it will need to import many of the high-level software engineers and employees who will form the core of the work force at its second headquarters. That may be a challenge.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”In the end, Mr. Sessions still drafted a resignation letter later that night and sent it to the White House. Mr. Priebus then went to work on Mr. Trump, arguing that he should not accept it. The president reluctantly agreed and Mr. Sessions stayed.But that did not end the danger to the attorney general. A couple months later, Mr. Trump took his anger with Mr. Sessions public by telling The New York Times in an interview that he would not have appointed him attorney general had he known that he would recuse himself.Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump once again demanded Mr. Sessions’s resignation. Citing a White House insider, Mr. Whipple’s book says the president told Mr. Priebus to act on his order. “Don’t try to slow me down like you always do,” Mr. Trump told him. “Get the resignation of Jeff Sessions.”Mr. Priebus, however, did try to slow him down and argued that pushing out Mr. Sessions would result in the resignations of the second- and third-ranking Justice Department officials too. “If I get this resignation, you are in for a spiral of calamity that makes Comey look like a picnic,” Mr. Priebus warned him. Again, Mr. Trump backed down.But in other ways he did not. Mr. Priebus said he and other aides — including Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter; Jared Kushner, his son-in-law; and Hope Hicks, his communications director — regularly tried to convince Mr. Trump that his random, often incendiary Twitter messages were self-destructive.“I told him, ‘Some of it’s not helpful, it causes distraction. We can get thrown off our message by tweeting things that aren’t the issues of the day,’” he said. But he did not get through. “Everybody tried at different times to cool down the Twitter habit — but no one could do it. Not me, Jared, Ivanka, Hope.”Even the first lady weighed in when her husband addressed Congress. “After the joint session, we all talked to him and Melania said, ‘No tweeting,’” Mr. Priebus said. “And he said, ‘OK — for the next few days.’ We had many discussions involving this issue. We had meetings in the residence. I couldn’t stop it.”The challenge was clear from the very start when Mr. Trump called him the morning after he was sworn in ranting about news coverage comparing the size of his inaugural crowd with that of his predecessor. Mr. Priebus tried to calm the new president, but ultimately had to go along. “Am I going to go to war over this with the president of the United States?” he asked himself.Mr. Priebus’s inability to control Mr. Trump or even control who could wander in and out of the Oval Office caused consternation. Mr. Bannon told Mr. Whipple that John F. Kelly, then the secretary of homeland security, complained to him about it. “He said to me, ‘It really upsets me that I walk in the Oval Office and it’s like Grand Central Station,’” said Mr. Bannon.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.WASHINGTON — Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director who was fired late Friday, kept contemporaneous memos about his interactions with President Trump and his conversations with the former director James B. Comey, a person close to Mr. McCabe said on Saturday.The memos could bolster the account of Mr. Comey, whose own memos and testimony describe repeated requests by Mr. Trump to clear his name. Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump also asked him to shut down a criminal investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Both matters are under investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is considering whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.State lawmakers also passed the Immigrant Worker Protection Act, which prohibits local business from allowing immigration to gain access to employee records without a court order or subpoena. Mr. Becerra warned that anyone who violated the new law would face a fine of up to $10,000.In the state budget bill, California lawmakers prohibited new contracts for immigration detention in the state and gave the state attorney general the power to monitor all state immigration detention centers.The state and several local governments including the cities of San Francisco and Sacramento have also set up legal defense funds to help defend immigrants during deportation proceedings.“I’m worried about the ‘Dreamers,’ hard-working immigrant families and law-abiding people who are just trying to make their way like the rest of us,” Mayor Darrell Steinberg of Sacramento said this year when asked about the state’s sanctuary legislation. “Civil disobedience is a respectful way to show your love for country.”Tensions between local and federal officials reached yet another height last week, when Mayor Libby Schaaf of Oakland publicly warned of coming large-scale immigration arrest operations. Mr. Homan compared the mayor to a “gang lookout yelling, “Police!” and said she gave people living in the United States illegally a chance to flee. He said her warning meant that the federal immigration authorities arrested about 200 people rather than the 1,000 they had anticipated rounding up.Although Mr. Homan and other federal officials have warned about targeting California as it steps up immigration enforcement efforts, the number of people arrested has not drastically increased so far. In December, the most recent month for which data is available, 1,715 unauthorized immigrants in California were arrested by ICE, compared with 1,379 in December 2016.This is not the first time that the Justice Department has sued a state. During the Obama administration, the department filed a civil rights lawsuit against Georgia for segregating students with disabilities from classrooms and sued North Carolina over a bill to restrict bathroom use for transgender citizens. Mr. Sessions withdrew that lawsuit.In a call with reporters on Tuesday night, Mr. Becerra said that he was confident California would prevail in court and that state and federal laws were not in conflict.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”____10. Finally, as the hit show “Fixer Upper” ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.On the late-night shows, Jimmy Fallon said he didn’t have high hopes for President Trump’s trip to Peru for the Summit of the Americas next week: “When he saw it on his schedule, Trump was like, ‘Wait, there’s more than one America? What is this?’”On Monday night, Mr. Fallon will have a co-host for the first time: The rapper Cardi B, who just released her first album, “Invasion of Privacy.”Have a great weekend.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.)He said the credit was “more important for other players who are much further away from the 200,000 United States sales mark.”In theory, the problem shouldn’t be difficult for Congress to fix. One approach would be to lift the 200,000 vehicle cap and continue the credit indefinitely, a move that would most likely be welcomed by makers and consumers of electric vehicles and has the support of green energy lobbying groups. But the price tag for the government could become prohibitive if electric car sales surge.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administration’s justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.Long-simmering tensions between Qualcomm and Apple reached a boiling point in 2016, when Qualcomm halted rebates it was giving Apple. Qualcomm claimed Apple had violated the terms of the rebate agreement by cooperating with South Korea’s investigation into what Samsung and others said was exclusionary conduct by Qualcomm. Apple responded by withholding the license fees it paid manufacturers of iPhones, who in turn stopped passing on the payments to Qualcomm.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.State lawmakers also passed the Immigrant Worker Protection Act, which prohibits local business from allowing immigration to gain access to employee records without a court order or subpoena. Mr. Becerra warned that anyone who violated the new law would face a fine of up to $10,000.In the state budget bill, California lawmakers prohibited new contracts for immigration detention in the state and gave the state attorney general the power to monitor all state immigration detention centers.The state and several local governments including the cities of San Francisco and Sacramento have also set up legal defense funds to help defend immigrants during deportation proceedings.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.Once I reached the station, I learned that the next New Jersey Transit train wouldn’t arrive for 50 minutes. When I went to the enclosed (and presumably heated) waiting area, it was empty, and entry was barred by a guard at the door.A Port Authority official said the area was closed because of an unattended bag. Some time after I left, it reopened when a police dog certified in bomb detection determined the bag was harmless.A New Jersey Transit spokeswoman, Nancy Snyder, explained that weekend service from Newark Airport is “limited” because of Amtrak maintenance work. Only three trains run per hour, clustered within the first 20 minutes of the hour, she said, and I evidently missed the last of those.The number of New Jersey Transit trains is also constrained by tunnel capacity under the Hudson River. Although a new rail tunnel has been one of the country’s top infrastructure priorities for years, in January the Trump administration cast doubt on the federal government’s commitment to fund half the cost of the first phase of the project, estimated at $11 billion. (New York and New Jersey have pledged to pay the rest.)In 2010, of course, Mr. Christie famously canceled a project for a new Hudson River tunnel, citing cost overruns, a decision whose reverberations continue to be felt by New Jersey’s beleaguered commuters.The train, when it finally arrived, was packed. I found a seat, but other passengers were standing. Mr. Christie’s successor as governor, Phil Murphy, has called New Jersey Transit a “national disgrace” and has pledged better funding and improvements.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.“Federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution, no matter how horrendous the underlying attacks or morally compelling the plaintiffs’ claims,” Judge John G. Koeltl, who ordinarily sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan, wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for the solicitor general’s office, said the administration was committed to fighting terrorism.“The United States condemns acts of terror in the strongest terms, and the Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting those who commit terrorist attacks against innocent human beings to the fullest extent that the law allows,” she said in a statement. “The United States sympathizes deeply with the American families who, in 2004, sued the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization for acts of terrorism committed against their loved ones between 2002 and 2004.”Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.) (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.But Mr. Trump passed over Mr. Cohn for the post of Federal Reserve chairman. In late December Mr. Cohn told the news site Axios he would still be in the administration three months hence. Earlier this month the time frame seemed to have shrunk. Asked how long he would stay at the White House, Mr. Cohn said only, “I’m here today and I’m here next week.”Professor Smith of N.Y.U. said he hoped Mr. Cohn would leave soon “because his reputation will be mangled if he stays.”“He delivered the tax legislation,” he said. “Whether you agree with it or not, he executed. That’s his skill. And he stood up to the president after Charlottesville. People respect that. I think he could leave now with his reputation intact.”Alone among the prominent Goldman alumni in the administration, Mr. Mnuchin seems likely to stay. “He’s been a good and loyal employee,” Professor Smith said. “But he’s more of a Hollywood person now. His reputation in the professional financial sector may not matter that much to him.”Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci aside, “any so-called exodus may be a function of what they achieved,” Mr. Gingrich said of the Goldman veterans.“There’s nothing on the agenda this year that’s nearly as exciting as reshaping the tax code,” he said. “They worked very hard and tried to do things that were effective. In that sense they were a real asset.”In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.Still, there are “a few” undervalued opportunities, Mr. Dodson said. He cited the health care sector: The biotech concern Gilead Sciences and the generic-drug maker Perrigo are two of his fund’s largest holdings. The toymaker Mattel “is on the bargain table,” he said. And even in technology, his fund has a large position in Qualcomm, currently fighting a takeover bid by the rival chip-maker Broadcom.If so much is indeed overvalued, then this year’s market could well reward discerning active managers. “I worry about the index funds,” Mr. Dodson said. “They’re getting close to 25 percent in technology, given the high valuations and market caps. If there’s a reversal, it’s going to hit the index funds hard. This may finally be the year that active managers outperform.”Mr. Stack agreed. “Active management isn’t about beating the market but about achieving market gains within a defined acceptance of risk,” he said. “There are selective opportunities, but you have to dig to find them. None are true bargains anymore.”He recently bought shares in the diversified industrial manufacturer Ingersoll Rand and is moving his portfolio toward more defensive positions in consumer staples, energy and materials. “I’d rather be early with portfolio defenses and leave some profits on the table than go into a bear market fully exposed,” he said.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.But Mr. Trump passed over Mr. Cohn for the post of Federal Reserve chairman. In late December Mr. Cohn told the news site Axios he would still be in the administration three months hence. Earlier this month the time frame seemed to have shrunk. Asked how long he would stay at the White House, Mr. Cohn said only, “I’m here today and I’m here next week.”Professor Smith of N.Y.U. said he hoped Mr. Cohn would leave soon “because his reputation will be mangled if he stays.”With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind? (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.Another reason to know your nenes is that, although rare in the wild, they often come up in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in Times crosswords 295 times since 1944.It appeared in the puzzle on March 12 with the clue “Hawaiian goose.” The word might also appear in easy puzzles with the clue “Hawaiian state bird” or “Hawaiian honker.”Later in the week, as the crosswords become harder, it might be referred to as “Aloha State bird,” “Endangered state bird,” “Lava geese,” “Bird so-called from its call” or “Gray-brown goose.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.WASHINGTON — President Trump asked the man he was considering as temporary F.B.I. director how he had voted in the 2016 presidential election, according to a person familiar with the discussion.The question was directed to Andrew G. McCabe, the bureau’s deputy director. Mr. Trump abruptly fired the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, in May, and at the time, the president openly discussed the need for any successor to be “loyal,” according to an adviser to the president.The week that Mr. Comey was fired, Mr. McCabe met with Mr. Trump a handful of times, a person familiar with the meetings said.It was at one of those meetings that Mr. Trump asked Mr. McCabe whom he had voted for, another person familiar with the encounters said. Mr. McCabe said he had not voted. The exchange was first reported by The Washington Post.The question was unusually and overtly political for an interview related to a position in the Justice Department, which is supposed to maintain its independence from politics.At their final meeting, Mr. Trump offered Mr. McCabe the job and told him he planned to give him the role of acting director. The president also said that he planned to make an appearance that week at F.B.I. Headquarters to bolster morale. Mr. McCabe told Mr. Trump that it would be a risky move after firing a well-respected director, so the president scuttled the trip, citing scheduling conflicts.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.)He said the credit was “more important for other players who are much further away from the 200,000 United States sales mark.”In theory, the problem shouldn’t be difficult for Congress to fix. One approach would be to lift the 200,000 vehicle cap and continue the credit indefinitely, a move that would most likely be welcomed by makers and consumers of electric vehicles and has the support of green energy lobbying groups. But the price tag for the government could become prohibitive if electric car sales surge.Or Congress could phase out the incentives beginning at a target date that would apply to all manufacturers, or after total industry sales hit a level that suggests a move to electric vehicles is sustainable. Depending on the time or level of sales chosen, that could address concerns about the impact of the tax credit on the deficit.Tesla and G.M. have not proposed a specific fix.Many countries have far more robust subsidies for electric cars than the United States, including most of Europe. Norway has by far the highest percentage of electric car ownership in the world (about one-third of the vehicles sold there last year were electric or hybrid), along with the most lavish subsidies, which include sharply reduced sales taxes as well as free parking and use of uncongested bus lanes. The country has set a goal of zero auto emissions by 2025.While no one expects the United States to go to such an extreme, revising the electric vehicle tax credit and bolstering other incentives for renewable energy could be a rare source of bipartisan agreement. When it comes to jobs, a top priority for both Congress and the Trump administration, the Department of Energy reported that in 2016, 3.38 million Americans were employed in the clean energy sector, 10 percent more than the 2.99 million employed in fossil fuels.How the renewable energy subsidies managed to survive to be part of the tax law remains a subject of debate, but nearly every explanation points in part to Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa, the powerful Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee and a staunch supporter of renewable energy, especially wind. Iowa is a leader in wind power, which generates 36 percent of the state’s electricity. The wind power industry employs 9,000 people in the state, according to the Iowa Wind Energy Association. (Senator Grassley did not respond to requests for comment.)WASHINGTON — President Trump asked the man he was considering as temporary F.B.I. director how he had voted in the 2016 presidential election, according to a person familiar with the discussion.The question was directed to Andrew G. McCabe, the bureau’s deputy director. Mr. Trump abruptly fired the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, in May, and at the time, the president openly discussed the need for any successor to be “loyal,” according to an adviser to the president.The week that Mr. Comey was fired, Mr. McCabe met with Mr. Trump a handful of times, a person familiar with the meetings said.It was at one of those meetings that Mr. Trump asked Mr. McCabe whom he had voted for, another person familiar with the encounters said. Mr. McCabe said he had not voted. The exchange was first reported by The Washington Post.The question was unusually and overtly political for an interview related to a position in the Justice Department, which is supposed to maintain its independence from politics.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.As you might imagine, T’Challa experienced a bit of culture shock. He bungled questions about credit-card debt and parenting, before buzzing in on a clue about law enforcement: “The policeman says there’s been some robberies in your neighborhood and asks if you have any information.” Boseman responded, “What is, not only do I tell this man what I know, but I also assist him in tracking down the offender. After all, our ministers of law enforcement are only here to protect us.”WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.As you might imagine, T’Challa experienced a bit of culture shock. He bungled questions about credit-card debt and parenting, before buzzing in on a clue about law enforcement: “The policeman says there’s been some robberies in your neighborhood and asks if you have any information.” Boseman responded, “What is, not only do I tell this man what I know, but I also assist him in tracking down the offender. After all, our ministers of law enforcement are only here to protect us.”Thompson twisted his features into an expression reminiscent of the nauseated face emoji. “I’m thinking you haven’t spent much time in America,” he said.The “Weekend Update” co-anchor Colin Jost also addressed President Trump’s decision to send National Guard troops to the border with Mexico, even though, he pointed out, “reports show that illegal border crossings are at their lowest level since 1971.” He continued, “It’s all part of Trump’s philosophy: ‘If it ain’t broke, I’ll break it.”A robotic Mark Zuckerberg, played by Alex Moffat, stopped by “Weekend Update” to address the criticism he has received since the Cambridge Analytica data leak. “Hi there, Colin,” he greeted Jost, before instructing himself to “begin eye contact.”“Unlike my facial expression, Facebook is going to change,” Moffat promised, in an interview punctuated by high-pitched giggles and stiff attempts at dabbing.He concluded with a disingenuous mea culpa:“My point is, sure, maybe Facebook sold out our democracy to Russian troll farms. My bad? But, on the other hand: Farmville. To be honest, I feel great about Facebook’s future. I sleep easy at night, upside down in my pressurized sleep egg. And sure, I still have all your photos, your memories, your unspoken thoughts and fears. But, America, look at me in my shark eyes when I say this — that, on behalf of everyone on Facebook, I’m sorry. On opposite day!”(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.Long-simmering tensions between Qualcomm and Apple reached a boiling point in 2016, when Qualcomm halted rebates it was giving Apple. Qualcomm claimed Apple had violated the terms of the rebate agreement by cooperating with South Korea’s investigation into what Samsung and others said was exclusionary conduct by Qualcomm. Apple responded by withholding the license fees it paid manufacturers of iPhones, who in turn stopped passing on the payments to Qualcomm.Lawsuits and counterclaims erupted, and Qualcomm reduced its revenue estimates by $500 million a year.While Apple has continued to buy and deploy the latest Qualcomm chips, it also reached out to a rival chip maker, Intel, which began supplying an alternative to Qualcomm’s chip for the iPhone 7. (That phone, the iPhone 8 and the X may contain either a Qualcomm or an Intel chip.)In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.Labor discipline was another matter. In the farming and domestic work that people had been doing for generations, “intense activity alternated with slack times,” whereas factory production was repetitive and continuous, requiring “coordinated activity by dozens or hundreds of workers, who were expected to start and stop work at the same time, day after day.”Now that factory work and stable, blue-collar jobs are such potent sources of nostalgia, it can be hard to recall how truly disruptive the manufacturing age was. Freeman does a superb job of reminding us. For an agrarian society like England, the factory generated a wistfulness for the bucolic agricultural past. The “dark Satanic Mills” bemoaned by William Blake were powered by steam and coal-fired boilers that belched smoke and soot. Seventy-hour work weeks were common. Male workers chafed at the constant supervision on the factory floor, and owners preferred not to employ men, anyway. “Today, in the United States, factories are associated with masculinity,” Freeman writes, “but in their early days they were spaces largely occupied by women and children.”Some of the details recounted here are familiar, though still appalling. In the 19th century, textile mills in New England — which were supposed to be gentler than the cruel depredations of the Old World — employed children as young as 4. Factory workers in Britain overwhelmed urban areas, crowding together in squalor. A Manchester official described streets “so covered with refuse and excrementitious matter as to be almost impassable from depth of mud, and intolerable from stench.”As Freeman shows, what started inauspiciously became an engine for material abundance and, in the cases of the United States and the Soviet Union, a source of national pride. Factories, especially steel mills, became the behemoths of the book’s title, consolidations of equipment and labor on a massive scale. Freeman suggests the awe that these enormous structures must have inspired, describing how dignitaries attending the opening of a steel mill in 19th-century Maryland “rode in decorated gondola cars along the route iron ore would take,” ascending to a height of eight stories. Unlike the textile worker, who brought to mind wan images of a young woman or “a sickly child,” steelworkers were often portrayed “as intensely masculine, often bare-chested, with muscles rippling.”With size and strength came strife too, as steel mills became sites for a bitter class war. Start-up costs were high, so a few big firms dominated the industry. Unions organized in response. Steel magnates like Andrew Carnegie resented any incursions on their freedom to set wages and working conditions at will; they wanted the right to squeeze labor to maintain profitability. The Homestead strike of 1892 turned into a literal conflagration, as steelworkers in Pennsylvania set the Monongahela River on fire.Freeman handles all of this material with the seriousness it deserves. If “Behemoth” can feel a little slow-going at times, that’s partly because of the knottiness of the history Freeman lays out, as well as his honorable refusal to resort to simplistic notions of grand progress or portentous doom.He shows how Henry Ford’s assembly-line innovations rendered his company both dominant and vulnerable: Switching to a new product in 1927 from the Model T required a wholesale overhaul of equipment and processes, costing Ford today’s equivalent of a cool $3.5 billion. Gigant industrialism in the Soviet Union and the Eastern bloc showed its own seams and contradictions; for all the talk of a workers’ paradise, the Soviets eventually criminalized absenteeism, tardiness and “quitting without permission,” controlling labor in ways that would have made the most ruthless capitalist proud.Toward the end of “Behemoth,” Freeman finally arrives in China and Vietnam, where the factory system is still flourishing. Unlike the 20th-century behemoths of the United States, which were publicly showcased as marvels of ingenuity and industry, these new factories keep much of their work hidden. Freeman says Foxconn City in Shenzhen, China, might well be the largest factory ever, though the number of employees is hard to pin down: perhaps as many as 400,000 workers, making sleek and expensive gadgets like Apple’s iPhone.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.“I’ve long felt that if Trump didn’t do well, it would be because of organizational issues,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn’t been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere.”Mr. Elson said Mr. Trump acted more like the typical entrepreneur than an experienced manager. “A problem with entrepreneurs is that people get tired of it and they move on,” he said. “People just get worn out. At some point you need a real manager. A lot of entrepreneurs sell their businesses when they reach a certain size and they realize they can’t manage them.”Would naming Mr. Cohn as chief of staff ameliorate the problem? Despite disenchantment with Mr. Kelly and his handling of the Porter situation, no one I interviewed thinks Mr. Cohn could fundamentally change the dynamic in the Trump White House any more than Mr. Kelly has.Mr. Cohn is now basking in the afterglow of the tax legislation, which seems to be growing in popularity with the public. His supporters point to the first-rate team he assembled at the National Economic Council as evidence that he — perhaps alone among top White House officials — could attract and retain talent. He enjoys good relations with Congress.But if Mr. Cohn became Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, he would have to sublimate his own beliefs to the president’s agenda. As one former White House official told me, “He can’t pull another Charlottesville,” referring to Mr. Cohn’s efforts last summer to publicly distance himself from the president’s racially charged comments while still working for him.Thanks to that incident, Mr. Cohn has already fallen from favor once, and his current rehabilitation may not last. People like Mr. Trump “have friends for a day,” Mr. Elson said. “That’s another quality of the entrepreneur. Like it or not, it’s part of what makes them successful.”While Mr. Cohn has influential supporters at the White House, talk of his possible elevation has prompted plenty of opposition, too, especially from representatives of Mr. Trump’s populist base. Mr. Cohn is, after all, a longtime Manhattan Democrat.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”Mr. Trump’s argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.Jimmy Carter endured significant political damage when his confidant and budget director, Bert Lance, was accused of banking irregularities. Even putting aside the Iran-contra scandal and the Monica S. Lewinsky affair, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton were besieged by investigations of their aides unrelated to them. In Reagan’s era, it became known as the “sleaze factor.” Mr. Clinton’s team drew the scrutiny of six independent counsels other than Kenneth W. Starr.In the current case, the targets so far have included not just a “coffee boy,” as Mr. Papadopoulos was described by an adviser to Mr. Trump, but the president’s top two campaign officials and national security adviser. While Mr. Trump has dismissed the relevance of allegations against Mr. Manafort because they involved business dealings before the campaign, the latest indictment claims that he was scheming to defraud banks while serving as Mr. Trump’s chairman.Moreover, it remains unclear why he volunteered to work for Mr. Trump’s campaign without pay at a time when he was experiencing significant financial pressure.Mr. Trump’s defenders have focused on questioning the original basis for the investigation, accusing the F.B.I. of misconduct in relying on an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy hired by investigators working for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign.To the extent that Mr. Mueller is exploring whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey, the president’s defenders contend that under the Constitution, he has the power to dismiss executive branch officials and dictate their work. They also point to testimony by Mr. Comey and other officials who said the investigation was not impeded.Therefore, they argue, the original order appointing Mr. Mueller was itself invalid and should be revoked.In the meantime, they are left to interpret the clues from Mr. Mueller’s actions just like everyone else. David B. Rivkin Jr., a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Reagan and President George Bush, said the totality of Mr. Mueller’s actions still did not add up to a threat to Mr. Trump.“It doesn’t make sense to unfold piecemeal an indictment of Russian entities and Russians if you have any hope of building a collusion case. It makes no logical sense,” he said. “To me, at least, what he’s done does underscore that there’s no collusion there. That leaves him with the obstruction of justice narrative which I think is constitutionally flawed and isn’t going to go anywhere.”Mr. Wittes said Mr. Mueller’s actions could be seen as building a pyramid — establishing that there was a Russian influence campaign and assembling a group of cooperating witnesses. But the special counsel has not tipped his hand yet.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.State lawmakers also passed the Immigrant Worker Protection Act, which prohibits local business from allowing immigration to gain access to employee records without a court order or subpoena. Mr. Becerra warned that anyone who violated the new law would face a fine of up to $10,000.In the state budget bill, California lawmakers prohibited new contracts for immigration detention in the state and gave the state attorney general the power to monitor all state immigration detention centers.The state and several local governments including the cities of San Francisco and Sacramento have also set up legal defense funds to help defend immigrants during deportation proceedings.“I’m worried about the ‘Dreamers,’ hard-working immigrant families and law-abiding people who are just trying to make their way like the rest of us,” Mayor Darrell Steinberg of Sacramento said this year when asked about the state’s sanctuary legislation. “Civil disobedience is a respectful way to show your love for country.”Tensions between local and federal officials reached yet another height last week, when Mayor Libby Schaaf of Oakland publicly warned of coming large-scale immigration arrest operations. Mr. Homan compared the mayor to a “gang lookout yelling, “Police!” and said she gave people living in the United States illegally a chance to flee. He said her warning meant that the federal immigration authorities arrested about 200 people rather than the 1,000 they had anticipated rounding up.Although Mr. Homan and other federal officials have warned about targeting California as it steps up immigration enforcement efforts, the number of people arrested has not drastically increased so far. In December, the most recent month for which data is available, 1,715 unauthorized immigrants in California were arrested by ICE, compared with 1,379 in December 2016.This is not the first time that the Justice Department has sued a state. During the Obama administration, the department filed a civil rights lawsuit against Georgia for segregating students with disabilities from classrooms and sued North Carolina over a bill to restrict bathroom use for transgender citizens. Mr. Sessions withdrew that lawsuit.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).Of the 20 finalist cities, Indianapolis has the least traffic congestion and the lowest average home prices, according to the Chamber of Commerce. That’s not to say there aren’t high-end options: A 21,000-square-foot, six-bedroom 1930s-era mansion, currently home to the Indiana University chancellor, is on the market for just under $7 million. (It might be perfect for the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos.)Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.Long-simmering tensions between Qualcomm and Apple reached a boiling point in 2016, when Qualcomm halted rebates it was giving Apple. Qualcomm claimed Apple had violated the terms of the rebate agreement by cooperating with South Korea’s investigation into what Samsung and others said was exclusionary conduct by Qualcomm. Apple responded by withholding the license fees it paid manufacturers of iPhones, who in turn stopped passing on the payments to Qualcomm.Lawsuits and counterclaims erupted, and Qualcomm reduced its revenue estimates by $500 million a year.While Apple has continued to buy and deploy the latest Qualcomm chips, it also reached out to a rival chip maker, Intel, which began supplying an alternative to Qualcomm’s chip for the iPhone 7. (That phone, the iPhone 8 and the X may contain either a Qualcomm or an Intel chip.)Qualcomm claims that Apple has compromised the performance of Qualcomm-equipped handsets in order to mask their superiority over the Intel-equipped phones. (Both Intel and Apple have vehemently denied the claims.)Numerous lawsuits are now well underway in the United States, with some expected to go to trial later this year. Regulators in the European Union, Taiwan, South Korea and China have ruled that Qualcomm’s licensing practices are unlawful and have levied fines, decisions that Qualcomm is appealing. In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission is conducting its own investigation.While armies of patent lawyers fight over the rival claims, investors have already rendered a verdict. Qualcomm shares, after peaking at more than $80 in 2014, dropped by nearly 50 percent, hitting a low of $44 in 2016.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a leading anti-abortion group, said the president’s directives amounted to taking “a monumental stand.”For someone who once described himself as “very pro-choice,” Mr. Trump’s transformation into a champion of the anti-abortion cause is a remarkable political evolution.Anti-abortion activists and Christian conservative leaders have remained one of his most loyal and deferential constituencies, even as he faced accusations that would have been the undoing of other politicians. This week, as the president brushed off allegations that his personal lawyer paid a pornographic-film actress with whom he was said to be involved with $130,000 in hush money, the religious right was full of praise for the president.“President Trump has never pretended to be a Bible-banging evangelical,” said Penny Young Nance, president of Concerned Women for America, a Christian conservative organization. “He is who he is. His policies speak for themselves.”Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.)He said the credit was “more important for other players who are much further away from the 200,000 United States sales mark.”In theory, the problem shouldn’t be difficult for Congress to fix. One approach would be to lift the 200,000 vehicle cap and continue the credit indefinitely, a move that would most likely be welcomed by makers and consumers of electric vehicles and has the support of green energy lobbying groups. But the price tag for the government could become prohibitive if electric car sales surge.Or Congress could phase out the incentives beginning at a target date that would apply to all manufacturers, or after total industry sales hit a level that suggests a move to electric vehicles is sustainable. Depending on the time or level of sales chosen, that could address concerns about the impact of the tax credit on the deficit.Tesla and G.M. have not proposed a specific fix.Many countries have far more robust subsidies for electric cars than the United States, including most of Europe. Norway has by far the highest percentage of electric car ownership in the world (about one-third of the vehicles sold there last year were electric or hybrid), along with the most lavish subsidies, which include sharply reduced sales taxes as well as free parking and use of uncongested bus lanes. The country has set a goal of zero auto emissions by 2025.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”In the end, Mr. Sessions still drafted a resignation letter later that night and sent it to the White House. Mr. Priebus then went to work on Mr. Trump, arguing that he should not accept it. The president reluctantly agreed and Mr. Sessions stayed.But that did not end the danger to the attorney general. A couple months later, Mr. Trump took his anger with Mr. Sessions public by telling The New York Times in an interview that he would not have appointed him attorney general had he known that he would recuse himself.Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump once again demanded Mr. Sessions’s resignation. Citing a White House insider, Mr. Whipple’s book says the president told Mr. Priebus to act on his order. “Don’t try to slow me down like you always do,” Mr. Trump told him. “Get the resignation of Jeff Sessions.”Mr. Priebus, however, did try to slow him down and argued that pushing out Mr. Sessions would result in the resignations of the second- and third-ranking Justice Department officials too. “If I get this resignation, you are in for a spiral of calamity that makes Comey look like a picnic,” Mr. Priebus warned him. Again, Mr. Trump backed down.But in other ways he did not. Mr. Priebus said he and other aides — including Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter; Jared Kushner, his son-in-law; and Hope Hicks, his communications director — regularly tried to convince Mr. Trump that his random, often incendiary Twitter messages were self-destructive.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”Mr. Sessions’s standing with Mr. Trump has eroded in his year as attorney general. The president criticized his Senate confirmation performance and his decision to remove himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, even musing that he would not have hired Mr. Sessions had he anticipated the recusal. He berated him so severely over Mr. Mueller’s appointment that Mr. Sessions offered his resignation.That fraught relationship has impaired Mr. Sessions’s ability to act as a bulwark between his lawyers and politics, former career prosecutors said.“Sessions’s silence is evidence that Trump’s public neutering of anyone close to this investigation is working,” said Paul Pelletier, a Democratic candidate for Congress in Virginia who was a federal prosecutor for nearly three decades. “It is deleterious to the whole criminal justice process.”Mr. Pelletier said that although the attorneys general with whom he worked, from Edwin Meese III to Eric H. Holder Jr., clashed with their staff, they gave prosecutors and the institution itself unwavering public support.“Prosecutors and agents are extremely vulnerable if they’re not properly supported by leadership, especially when it comes to investigations and attacks launched on the political side,” said Daniel Petalas, a former prosecutor in the department’s public integrity section and the United States attorney’s office in Washington.The department is often involved in high-profile cases, sometimes with powerful people at the center who seek to discredit the investigations against them. “Prosecutors have to stand silently and cannot defend their work to the public,” Mr. Petalas said. “They can only hope that the leadership will serve as a bulwark.”Two current federal prosecutors who spoke on the condition of anonymity said they were working hard to maintain morale. They were heartened by reports of Mr. Wray standing up to Mr. Trump, and they remain optimistic that the institution can withstand political attacks, with or without Mr. Sessions’s public support.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.“Federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution, no matter how horrendous the underlying attacks or morally compelling the plaintiffs’ claims,” Judge John G. Koeltl, who ordinarily sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan, wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for the solicitor general’s office, said the administration was committed to fighting terrorism.“The United States condemns acts of terror in the strongest terms, and the Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting those who commit terrorist attacks against innocent human beings to the fullest extent that the law allows,” she said in a statement. “The United States sympathizes deeply with the American families who, in 2004, sued the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization for acts of terrorism committed against their loved ones between 2002 and 2004.”“The court of appeals decided, however,” she said, “that the suit was not consistent with due process under the Constitution, and its decision does not meet the usual standards for Supreme Court review. We will continue to support wherever possible all lawful actions to fight terrorism and provide redress to the victims of terrorist attacks and their families.”WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.In particular, Republicans pointed to Andrew Weissmann, who served as F.B.I. general counsel under Mr. Mueller. Mr. Weissmann is a career prosecutor but, while in private law practice, donated thousands of dollars toward President Barack Obama’s election effort.In his Sunday morning Twitter blasts, Mr. Trump also renewed his attacks on James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, and Andrew G. McCabe, his former deputy, both of whom, like Mr. Mueller, are longtime Republicans. Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey last May, at first attributing the decision to the F.B.I. director’s handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server but later telling an interviewer that he had the Russia investigation in mind when he made the decision. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.“I’ve long felt that if Trump didn’t do well, it would be because of organizational issues,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn’t been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere.”Mr. Elson said Mr. Trump acted more like the typical entrepreneur than an experienced manager. “A problem with entrepreneurs is that people get tired of it and they move on,” he said. “People just get worn out. At some point you need a real manager. A lot of entrepreneurs sell their businesses when they reach a certain size and they realize they can’t manage them.”Would naming Mr. Cohn as chief of staff ameliorate the problem? Despite disenchantment with Mr. Kelly and his handling of the Porter situation, no one I interviewed thinks Mr. Cohn could fundamentally change the dynamic in the Trump White House any more than Mr. Kelly has.Mr. Cohn is now basking in the afterglow of the tax legislation, which seems to be growing in popularity with the public. His supporters point to the first-rate team he assembled at the National Economic Council as evidence that he — perhaps alone among top White House officials — could attract and retain talent. He enjoys good relations with Congress.But if Mr. Cohn became Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, he would have to sublimate his own beliefs to the president’s agenda. As one former White House official told me, “He can’t pull another Charlottesville,” referring to Mr. Cohn’s efforts last summer to publicly distance himself from the president’s racially charged comments while still working for him.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a leading anti-abortion group, said the president’s directives amounted to taking “a monumental stand.”For someone who once described himself as “very pro-choice,” Mr. Trump’s transformation into a champion of the anti-abortion cause is a remarkable political evolution.Anti-abortion activists and Christian conservative leaders have remained one of his most loyal and deferential constituencies, even as he faced accusations that would have been the undoing of other politicians. This week, as the president brushed off allegations that his personal lawyer paid a pornographic-film actress with whom he was said to be involved with $130,000 in hush money, the religious right was full of praise for the president.“President Trump has never pretended to be a Bible-banging evangelical,” said Penny Young Nance, president of Concerned Women for America, a Christian conservative organization. “He is who he is. His policies speak for themselves.”Besides his executive orders, conservatives are celebrating one of the most ambitious efforts ever undertaken by a White House to reshape the federal judiciary.Mr. Trump has appointed judges to appellate courts at a rate faster than any new president since Richard M. Nixon, and the Republican-controlled Senate is working to speed the approval of Mr. Trump’s lower-level district court nominees. Abortion rights groups have objected to many of the nominees.Mr. Trump’s policies could have serious consequences for abortion providers like Planned Parenthood, which has become a target of the Trump administration and the Republican-controlled Congress.The new directive Mr. Trump issued on Friday could prove especially problematic. Planned Parenthood says that 60 percent of its patients receive Medicaid assistance. And the new rules would make it easier for states to bar Medicaid funding from going to the women’s health provider.“This is part of the Trump administration’s commitment to rolling back regulations the Obama administration put out to radically favor abortion,” said Charmaine Yoest, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services.Dawn Laguens, executive vice president for Planned Parenthood Action Fund, accused the Trump administration and Republicans of circumventing the legislative process. “They couldn’t get the votes to pass it in Congress, so now they are pushing states to try and block care,” she said.The president’s remarks to the march on Friday were just part of a week in which the White House rolled out the red carpet for the anti-abortion movement. Vice President Mike Pence hosted anti-abortion leaders at a private reception on the White House grounds on Thursday, telling them, “Life is winning.”WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 concertgoers were killed by a gunman using firearms outfitted with bump stocks, public pressure grew to ban them. Justice Department and A.T.F. officials privately stuck by their earlier conclusion that they could not outlaw bump stocks, but with little appetite to tackle gun policy in Congress, Mr. Sessions asked the A.T.F. to review its determination.Agencies periodically scrutinize earlier rulings and change interpretations. What set apart the bump stock evaluation, according to former bureau officials, was Mr. Trump’s overt political pressure.“No disrespect intended, but I’m sure President Trump has no idea what exactly the authority is for A.T.F. or the D.O.J. to ban these things,” said Bradley A. Buckles, who was the head of the bureau from 1999 to 2004. “In all honesty, he doesn’t know what his authority is in that regard.”And in altering its 2010 interpretation made under former President Barack Obama, the bureau could be subject to lawsuits that tie up a bump stock ban in the courts.“The Justice Department and the A.T.F. are going to get sued, and Trump is going to get flak,” said Josh Blackman, a professor at South Texas College of Law in Houston. “Obama was correct in his interpretation of the statute. If you want to ban bump stocks, it has to be done through Congress.”The apparent reversal on bump stocks appears to be more political than legal, said Rick Vasquez, a former A.T.F. official who supervised the bureau’s prior determination on bump stocks.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.Still, there are “a few” undervalued opportunities, Mr. Dodson said. He cited the health care sector: The biotech concern Gilead Sciences and the generic-drug maker Perrigo are two of his fund’s largest holdings. The toymaker Mattel “is on the bargain table,” he said. And even in technology, his fund has a large position in Qualcomm, currently fighting a takeover bid by the rival chip-maker Broadcom.If so much is indeed overvalued, then this year’s market could well reward discerning active managers. “I worry about the index funds,” Mr. Dodson said. “They’re getting close to 25 percent in technology, given the high valuations and market caps. If there’s a reversal, it’s going to hit the index funds hard. This may finally be the year that active managers outperform.”Mr. Stack agreed. “Active management isn’t about beating the market but about achieving market gains within a defined acceptance of risk,” he said. “There are selective opportunities, but you have to dig to find them. None are true bargains anymore.”He recently bought shares in the diversified industrial manufacturer Ingersoll Rand and is moving his portfolio toward more defensive positions in consumer staples, energy and materials. “I’d rather be early with portfolio defenses and leave some profits on the table than go into a bear market fully exposed,” he said.Mr. Stack said that in examining bull markets over the past 50 years, he had found that both the technology and energy sectors outperformed in the late stages of a bull market. He said investors “should have some portion of their portfolio in the materials sector, notably energy, which had been so out of favor” until mid-2017.In my outlook column last year, Damien Courvalin, head of energy research for Goldman Sachs’s Global Investment Research commodities team, was uncannily accurate in forecasting that oil prices would recover in 2017 and stabilize at $55 to $60 per barrel. (West Texas intermediate crude oil futures ended the year at $60.42.) So I asked him what his team was predicting this year.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.Once I reached the station, I learned that the next New Jersey Transit train wouldn’t arrive for 50 minutes. When I went to the enclosed (and presumably heated) waiting area, it was empty, and entry was barred by a guard at the door.A Port Authority official said the area was closed because of an unattended bag. Some time after I left, it reopened when a police dog certified in bomb detection determined the bag was harmless.A New Jersey Transit spokeswoman, Nancy Snyder, explained that weekend service from Newark Airport is “limited” because of Amtrak maintenance work. Only three trains run per hour, clustered within the first 20 minutes of the hour, she said, and I evidently missed the last of those.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.WASHINGTON — President Trump asked the man he was considering as temporary F.B.I. director how he had voted in the 2016 presidential election, according to a person familiar with the discussion.The question was directed to Andrew G. McCabe, the bureau’s deputy director. Mr. Trump abruptly fired the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, in May, and at the time, the president openly discussed the need for any successor to be “loyal,” according to an adviser to the president.The week that Mr. Comey was fired, Mr. McCabe met with Mr. Trump a handful of times, a person familiar with the meetings said.It was at one of those meetings that Mr. Trump asked Mr. McCabe whom he had voted for, another person familiar with the encounters said. Mr. McCabe said he had not voted. The exchange was first reported by The Washington Post.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.State lawmakers also passed the Immigrant Worker Protection Act, which prohibits local business from allowing immigration to gain access to employee records without a court order or subpoena. Mr. Becerra warned that anyone who violated the new law would face a fine of up to $10,000.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”____10. Finally, as the hit show “Fixer Upper” ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.“I’ve long felt that if Trump didn’t do well, it would be because of organizational issues,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn’t been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere.”Mr. Elson said Mr. Trump acted more like the typical entrepreneur than an experienced manager. “A problem with entrepreneurs is that people get tired of it and they move on,” he said. “People just get worn out. At some point you need a real manager. A lot of entrepreneurs sell their businesses when they reach a certain size and they realize they can’t manage them.”Would naming Mr. Cohn as chief of staff ameliorate the problem? Despite disenchantment with Mr. Kelly and his handling of the Porter situation, no one I interviewed thinks Mr. Cohn could fundamentally change the dynamic in the Trump White House any more than Mr. Kelly has.Mr. Cohn is now basking in the afterglow of the tax legislation, which seems to be growing in popularity with the public. His supporters point to the first-rate team he assembled at the National Economic Council as evidence that he — perhaps alone among top White House officials — could attract and retain talent. He enjoys good relations with Congress.But if Mr. Cohn became Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, he would have to sublimate his own beliefs to the president’s agenda. As one former White House official told me, “He can’t pull another Charlottesville,” referring to Mr. Cohn’s efforts last summer to publicly distance himself from the president’s racially charged comments while still working for him.Thanks to that incident, Mr. Cohn has already fallen from favor once, and his current rehabilitation may not last. People like Mr. Trump “have friends for a day,” Mr. Elson said. “That’s another quality of the entrepreneur. Like it or not, it’s part of what makes them successful.”Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.“Federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution, no matter how horrendous the underlying attacks or morally compelling the plaintiffs’ claims,” Judge John G. Koeltl, who ordinarily sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan, wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for the solicitor general’s office, said the administration was committed to fighting terrorism.“The United States condemns acts of terror in the strongest terms, and the Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting those who commit terrorist attacks against innocent human beings to the fullest extent that the law allows,” she said in a statement. “The United States sympathizes deeply with the American families who, in 2004, sued the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization for acts of terrorism committed against their loved ones between 2002 and 2004.”“The court of appeals decided, however,” she said, “that the suit was not consistent with due process under the Constitution, and its decision does not meet the usual standards for Supreme Court review. We will continue to support wherever possible all lawful actions to fight terrorism and provide redress to the victims of terrorist attacks and their families.”When the Supreme Court asks the solicitor general for his or her views on whether to hear an appeal, as it does about 25 times each term, it presumably wants to know both whether the case warrants the justices’ attention and whether the party seeking review is right.Mr. Francisco gave only half an answer, taking no position on whether the appeals court’s decision was correct. According to Mr. Olson’s brief, “research revealed only one other instance since 2014 in which the solicitor general did not state a view on the merits” in similar circumstances.The two sides disagree about how many cases will be thwarted by the appeals court’s ruling. “It is far from clear that the court of appeals’ approach will foreclose many claims that would otherwise go forward in federal courts,” Mr. Francisco wrote for the administration.The entire House of Representatives and 23 senators disagreed. In briefs filed last April, they said the appeals court’s ruling had cut the heart out of the statute, effectively nullifying it.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).Of the 20 finalist cities, Indianapolis has the least traffic congestion and the lowest average home prices, according to the Chamber of Commerce. That’s not to say there aren’t high-end options: A 21,000-square-foot, six-bedroom 1930s-era mansion, currently home to the Indiana University chancellor, is on the market for just under $7 million. (It might be perfect for the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos.)For all its virtues, Indianapolis faces a number of hurdles. While Mr. Stutz told me that Salesforce had found an abundance of homegrown tech talent there, Amazon knows it will need to import many of the high-level software engineers and employees who will form the core of the work force at its second headquarters. That may be a challenge.Unlike Amazon’s home state of Washington, Indiana reliably votes Republican in presidential elections, though it went for Barack Obama over John McCain in 2008. Donald J. Trump carried the state overwhelmingly in 2016, and Mike Pence, an Indiana native and self-described religious conservative, served as Indiana’s governor before becoming Mr. Trump’s vice president.A strong streak of social conservatism runs through the state (though not so much in Indianapolis), and this week the state legislature was roiled by a new round in the culture wars as legislators debated whether to pass a hate-crimes bill to protect victims of bias based on race, religion, sex, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation. Indiana is one of only five states without such legislation.Partly as a result of pressure from Salesforce, other companies and the N.C.A.A., Mr. Pence, when he was governor, amended a so-called Religious Freedom Restoration Act in 2015 that had allowed business owners to discriminate against gays and lesbians on the grounds of religious principle.Mr. Huber said the Chamber of Commerce had been a longtime supporter of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights, and was a strong supporter of comprehensive anti-hate-crime legislation. The city has had a comprehensive human rights ordinance in place since 2005, he said.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a leading anti-abortion group, said the president’s directives amounted to taking “a monumental stand.”For someone who once described himself as “very pro-choice,” Mr. Trump’s transformation into a champion of the anti-abortion cause is a remarkable political evolution.Anti-abortion activists and Christian conservative leaders have remained one of his most loyal and deferential constituencies, even as he faced accusations that would have been the undoing of other politicians. This week, as the president brushed off allegations that his personal lawyer paid a pornographic-film actress with whom he was said to be involved with $130,000 in hush money, the religious right was full of praise for the president.“President Trump has never pretended to be a Bible-banging evangelical,” said Penny Young Nance, president of Concerned Women for America, a Christian conservative organization. “He is who he is. His policies speak for themselves.”Besides his executive orders, conservatives are celebrating one of the most ambitious efforts ever undertaken by a White House to reshape the federal judiciary.Mr. Trump has appointed judges to appellate courts at a rate faster than any new president since Richard M. Nixon, and the Republican-controlled Senate is working to speed the approval of Mr. Trump’s lower-level district court nominees. Abortion rights groups have objected to many of the nominees.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.State lawmakers also passed the Immigrant Worker Protection Act, which prohibits local business from allowing immigration to gain access to employee records without a court order or subpoena. Mr. Becerra warned that anyone who violated the new law would face a fine of up to $10,000.In the state budget bill, California lawmakers prohibited new contracts for immigration detention in the state and gave the state attorney general the power to monitor all state immigration detention centers.The state and several local governments including the cities of San Francisco and Sacramento have also set up legal defense funds to help defend immigrants during deportation proceedings.“I’m worried about the ‘Dreamers,’ hard-working immigrant families and law-abiding people who are just trying to make their way like the rest of us,” Mayor Darrell Steinberg of Sacramento said this year when asked about the state’s sanctuary legislation. “Civil disobedience is a respectful way to show your love for country.”Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.But Mr. Trump passed over Mr. Cohn for the post of Federal Reserve chairman. In late December Mr. Cohn told the news site Axios he would still be in the administration three months hence. Earlier this month the time frame seemed to have shrunk. Asked how long he would stay at the White House, Mr. Cohn said only, “I’m here today and I’m here next week.”Professor Smith of N.Y.U. said he hoped Mr. Cohn would leave soon “because his reputation will be mangled if he stays.”“He delivered the tax legislation,” he said. “Whether you agree with it or not, he executed. That’s his skill. And he stood up to the president after Charlottesville. People respect that. I think he could leave now with his reputation intact.”Alone among the prominent Goldman alumni in the administration, Mr. Mnuchin seems likely to stay. “He’s been a good and loyal employee,” Professor Smith said. “But he’s more of a Hollywood person now. His reputation in the professional financial sector may not matter that much to him.”Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci aside, “any so-called exodus may be a function of what they achieved,” Mr. Gingrich said of the Goldman veterans.“There’s nothing on the agenda this year that’s nearly as exciting as reshaping the tax code,” he said. “They worked very hard and tried to do things that were effective. In that sense they were a real asset.”At the same time, Mr. Gingrich contended that Mr. Trump — and not his advisers — deserved the lion’s share of credit for the tax bill, for building confidence in the economy, and for not launching a trade war.“He has a much broader capacity than people in the District of Columbia give him credit for,” Mr. Gingrich said of the president. “People get so wound up in the goofier things he does, the tweets and outrageous statements. But underneath that is a very methodical and pragmatic businessman. He knows how to use competent people.”Whether Mr. Trump can replace the departing Goldman alumni with people of similar stature remains to be seen. Mr. Gingrich pointed to Mr. Trump’s appointment of Jerome Powell as the new Federal Reserve chairman as evidence that he will be able to recruit top economic talent.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.Once I reached the station, I learned that the next New Jersey Transit train wouldn’t arrive for 50 minutes. When I went to the enclosed (and presumably heated) waiting area, it was empty, and entry was barred by a guard at the door.A Port Authority official said the area was closed because of an unattended bag. Some time after I left, it reopened when a police dog certified in bomb detection determined the bag was harmless.A New Jersey Transit spokeswoman, Nancy Snyder, explained that weekend service from Newark Airport is “limited” because of Amtrak maintenance work. Only three trains run per hour, clustered within the first 20 minutes of the hour, she said, and I evidently missed the last of those.The number of New Jersey Transit trains is also constrained by tunnel capacity under the Hudson River. Although a new rail tunnel has been one of the country’s top infrastructure priorities for years, in January the Trump administration cast doubt on the federal government’s commitment to fund half the cost of the first phase of the project, estimated at $11 billion. (New York and New Jersey have pledged to pay the rest.)In 2010, of course, Mr. Christie famously canceled a project for a new Hudson River tunnel, citing cost overruns, a decision whose reverberations continue to be felt by New Jersey’s beleaguered commuters.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.But Mr. Trump passed over Mr. Cohn for the post of Federal Reserve chairman. In late December Mr. Cohn told the news site Axios he would still be in the administration three months hence. Earlier this month the time frame seemed to have shrunk. Asked how long he would stay at the White House, Mr. Cohn said only, “I’m here today and I’m here next week.”Professor Smith of N.Y.U. said he hoped Mr. Cohn would leave soon “because his reputation will be mangled if he stays.”“He delivered the tax legislation,” he said. “Whether you agree with it or not, he executed. That’s his skill. And he stood up to the president after Charlottesville. People respect that. I think he could leave now with his reputation intact.”Alone among the prominent Goldman alumni in the administration, Mr. Mnuchin seems likely to stay. “He’s been a good and loyal employee,” Professor Smith said. “But he’s more of a Hollywood person now. His reputation in the professional financial sector may not matter that much to him.”Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci aside, “any so-called exodus may be a function of what they achieved,” Mr. Gingrich said of the Goldman veterans.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a leading anti-abortion group, said the president’s directives amounted to taking “a monumental stand.”For someone who once described himself as “very pro-choice,” Mr. Trump’s transformation into a champion of the anti-abortion cause is a remarkable political evolution.Anti-abortion activists and Christian conservative leaders have remained one of his most loyal and deferential constituencies, even as he faced accusations that would have been the undoing of other politicians. This week, as the president brushed off allegations that his personal lawyer paid a pornographic-film actress with whom he was said to be involved with $130,000 in hush money, the religious right was full of praise for the president.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”Mr. Sessions’s standing with Mr. Trump has eroded in his year as attorney general. The president criticized his Senate confirmation performance and his decision to remove himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, even musing that he would not have hired Mr. Sessions had he anticipated the recusal. He berated him so severely over Mr. Mueller’s appointment that Mr. Sessions offered his resignation. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.As you might imagine, T’Challa experienced a bit of culture shock. He bungled questions about credit-card debt and parenting, before buzzing in on a clue about law enforcement: “The policeman says there’s been some robberies in your neighborhood and asks if you have any information.” Boseman responded, “What is, not only do I tell this man what I know, but I also assist him in tracking down the offender. After all, our ministers of law enforcement are only here to protect us.”Thompson twisted his features into an expression reminiscent of the nauseated face emoji. “I’m thinking you haven’t spent much time in America,” he said.The “Weekend Update” co-anchor Colin Jost also addressed President Trump’s decision to send National Guard troops to the border with Mexico, even though, he pointed out, “reports show that illegal border crossings are at their lowest level since 1971.” He continued, “It’s all part of Trump’s philosophy: ‘If it ain’t broke, I’ll break it.”A robotic Mark Zuckerberg, played by Alex Moffat, stopped by “Weekend Update” to address the criticism he has received since the Cambridge Analytica data leak. “Hi there, Colin,” he greeted Jost, before instructing himself to “begin eye contact.”WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a leading anti-abortion group, said the president’s directives amounted to taking “a monumental stand.”WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.“Federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution, no matter how horrendous the underlying attacks or morally compelling the plaintiffs’ claims,” Judge John G. Koeltl, who ordinarily sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan, wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for the solicitor general’s office, said the administration was committed to fighting terrorism.“The United States condemns acts of terror in the strongest terms, and the Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting those who commit terrorist attacks against innocent human beings to the fullest extent that the law allows,” she said in a statement. “The United States sympathizes deeply with the American families who, in 2004, sued the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization for acts of terrorism committed against their loved ones between 2002 and 2004.”“The court of appeals decided, however,” she said, “that the suit was not consistent with due process under the Constitution, and its decision does not meet the usual standards for Supreme Court review. We will continue to support wherever possible all lawful actions to fight terrorism and provide redress to the victims of terrorist attacks and their families.”When the Supreme Court asks the solicitor general for his or her views on whether to hear an appeal, as it does about 25 times each term, it presumably wants to know both whether the case warrants the justices’ attention and whether the party seeking review is right.Mr. Francisco gave only half an answer, taking no position on whether the appeals court’s decision was correct. According to Mr. Olson’s brief, “research revealed only one other instance since 2014 in which the solicitor general did not state a view on the merits” in similar circumstances.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.“Federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution, no matter how horrendous the underlying attacks or morally compelling the plaintiffs’ claims,” Judge John G. Koeltl, who ordinarily sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan, wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for the solicitor general’s office, said the administration was committed to fighting terrorism.“The United States condemns acts of terror in the strongest terms, and the Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting those who commit terrorist attacks against innocent human beings to the fullest extent that the law allows,” she said in a statement. “The United States sympathizes deeply with the American families who, in 2004, sued the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization for acts of terrorism committed against their loved ones between 2002 and 2004.”“The court of appeals decided, however,” she said, “that the suit was not consistent with due process under the Constitution, and its decision does not meet the usual standards for Supreme Court review. We will continue to support wherever possible all lawful actions to fight terrorism and provide redress to the victims of terrorist attacks and their families.”When the Supreme Court asks the solicitor general for his or her views on whether to hear an appeal, as it does about 25 times each term, it presumably wants to know both whether the case warrants the justices’ attention and whether the party seeking review is right.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.Inspectors general at cabinet agencies are kept separate to preserve their independence. Paul Light, a New York University professor and specialist on the offices, recalled that President Ronald Reagan fired all of the inspectors general but was forced by Congress to rehire some of them. “They have protections in statutes against arbitrary dismissal,” he said.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.Labor discipline was another matter. In the farming and domestic work that people had been doing for generations, “intense activity alternated with slack times,” whereas factory production was repetitive and continuous, requiring “coordinated activity by dozens or hundreds of workers, who were expected to start and stop work at the same time, day after day.”Now that factory work and stable, blue-collar jobs are such potent sources of nostalgia, it can be hard to recall how truly disruptive the manufacturing age was. Freeman does a superb job of reminding us. For an agrarian society like England, the factory generated a wistfulness for the bucolic agricultural past. The “dark Satanic Mills” bemoaned by William Blake were powered by steam and coal-fired boilers that belched smoke and soot. Seventy-hour work weeks were common. Male workers chafed at the constant supervision on the factory floor, and owners preferred not to employ men, anyway. “Today, in the United States, factories are associated with masculinity,” Freeman writes, “but in their early days they were spaces largely occupied by women and children.”Some of the details recounted here are familiar, though still appalling. In the 19th century, textile mills in New England — which were supposed to be gentler than the cruel depredations of the Old World — employed children as young as 4. Factory workers in Britain overwhelmed urban areas, crowding together in squalor. A Manchester official described streets “so covered with refuse and excrementitious matter as to be almost impassable from depth of mud, and intolerable from stench.”As Freeman shows, what started inauspiciously became an engine for material abundance and, in the cases of the United States and the Soviet Union, a source of national pride. Factories, especially steel mills, became the behemoths of the book’s title, consolidations of equipment and labor on a massive scale. Freeman suggests the awe that these enormous structures must have inspired, describing how dignitaries attending the opening of a steel mill in 19th-century Maryland “rode in decorated gondola cars along the route iron ore would take,” ascending to a height of eight stories. Unlike the textile worker, who brought to mind wan images of a young woman or “a sickly child,” steelworkers were often portrayed “as intensely masculine, often bare-chested, with muscles rippling.”In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”In the end, Mr. Sessions still drafted a resignation letter later that night and sent it to the White House. Mr. Priebus then went to work on Mr. Trump, arguing that he should not accept it. The president reluctantly agreed and Mr. Sessions stayed.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 concertgoers were killed by a gunman using firearms outfitted with bump stocks, public pressure grew to ban them. Justice Department and A.T.F. officials privately stuck by their earlier conclusion that they could not outlaw bump stocks, but with little appetite to tackle gun policy in Congress, Mr. Sessions asked the A.T.F. to review its determination.Agencies periodically scrutinize earlier rulings and change interpretations. What set apart the bump stock evaluation, according to former bureau officials, was Mr. Trump’s overt political pressure.“No disrespect intended, but I’m sure President Trump has no idea what exactly the authority is for A.T.F. or the D.O.J. to ban these things,” said Bradley A. Buckles, who was the head of the bureau from 1999 to 2004. “In all honesty, he doesn’t know what his authority is in that regard.”With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”Mr. Sessions’s standing with Mr. Trump has eroded in his year as attorney general. The president criticized his Senate confirmation performance and his decision to remove himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, even musing that he would not have hired Mr. Sessions had he anticipated the recusal. He berated him so severely over Mr. Mueller’s appointment that Mr. Sessions offered his resignation.That fraught relationship has impaired Mr. Sessions’s ability to act as a bulwark between his lawyers and politics, former career prosecutors said.“Sessions’s silence is evidence that Trump’s public neutering of anyone close to this investigation is working,” said Paul Pelletier, a Democratic candidate for Congress in Virginia who was a federal prosecutor for nearly three decades. “It is deleterious to the whole criminal justice process.”Mr. Pelletier said that although the attorneys general with whom he worked, from Edwin Meese III to Eric H. Holder Jr., clashed with their staff, they gave prosecutors and the institution itself unwavering public support.“Prosecutors and agents are extremely vulnerable if they’re not properly supported by leadership, especially when it comes to investigations and attacks launched on the political side,” said Daniel Petalas, a former prosecutor in the department’s public integrity section and the United States attorney’s office in Washington.The department is often involved in high-profile cases, sometimes with powerful people at the center who seek to discredit the investigations against them. “Prosecutors have to stand silently and cannot defend their work to the public,” Mr. Petalas said. “They can only hope that the leadership will serve as a bulwark.”Two current federal prosecutors who spoke on the condition of anonymity said they were working hard to maintain morale. They were heartened by reports of Mr. Wray standing up to Mr. Trump, and they remain optimistic that the institution can withstand political attacks, with or without Mr. Sessions’s public support.The silence from Mr. Sessions could have a more pernicious effect on the staff than the blow to morale, the officials say. The condemnations send the message that people can be persecuted for holding political beliefs at odds with those of the president.During a speech in Norfolk, Va., last month, Mr. Sessions said that he loved the department and that the “vast majority” of employees were patriotic and hard-working. But he also implied that it might be necessary to weed out “political bias and favoritism” from investigations and prosecutions.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.Labor discipline was another matter. In the farming and domestic work that people had been doing for generations, “intense activity alternated with slack times,” whereas factory production was repetitive and continuous, requiring “coordinated activity by dozens or hundreds of workers, who were expected to start and stop work at the same time, day after day.”Now that factory work and stable, blue-collar jobs are such potent sources of nostalgia, it can be hard to recall how truly disruptive the manufacturing age was. Freeman does a superb job of reminding us. For an agrarian society like England, the factory generated a wistfulness for the bucolic agricultural past. The “dark Satanic Mills” bemoaned by William Blake were powered by steam and coal-fired boilers that belched smoke and soot. Seventy-hour work weeks were common. Male workers chafed at the constant supervision on the factory floor, and owners preferred not to employ men, anyway. “Today, in the United States, factories are associated with masculinity,” Freeman writes, “but in their early days they were spaces largely occupied by women and children.”Some of the details recounted here are familiar, though still appalling. In the 19th century, textile mills in New England — which were supposed to be gentler than the cruel depredations of the Old World — employed children as young as 4. Factory workers in Britain overwhelmed urban areas, crowding together in squalor. A Manchester official described streets “so covered with refuse and excrementitious matter as to be almost impassable from depth of mud, and intolerable from stench.”As Freeman shows, what started inauspiciously became an engine for material abundance and, in the cases of the United States and the Soviet Union, a source of national pride. Factories, especially steel mills, became the behemoths of the book’s title, consolidations of equipment and labor on a massive scale. Freeman suggests the awe that these enormous structures must have inspired, describing how dignitaries attending the opening of a steel mill in 19th-century Maryland “rode in decorated gondola cars along the route iron ore would take,” ascending to a height of eight stories. Unlike the textile worker, who brought to mind wan images of a young woman or “a sickly child,” steelworkers were often portrayed “as intensely masculine, often bare-chested, with muscles rippling.”With size and strength came strife too, as steel mills became sites for a bitter class war. Start-up costs were high, so a few big firms dominated the industry. Unions organized in response. Steel magnates like Andrew Carnegie resented any incursions on their freedom to set wages and working conditions at will; they wanted the right to squeeze labor to maintain profitability. The Homestead strike of 1892 turned into a literal conflagration, as steelworkers in Pennsylvania set the Monongahela River on fire.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”Mr. Trump’s argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.Jimmy Carter endured significant political damage when his confidant and budget director, Bert Lance, was accused of banking irregularities. Even putting aside the Iran-contra scandal and the Monica S. Lewinsky affair, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton were besieged by investigations of their aides unrelated to them. In Reagan’s era, it became known as the “sleaze factor.” Mr. Clinton’s team drew the scrutiny of six independent counsels other than Kenneth W. Starr.In the current case, the targets so far have included not just a “coffee boy,” as Mr. Papadopoulos was described by an adviser to Mr. Trump, but the president’s top two campaign officials and national security adviser. While Mr. Trump has dismissed the relevance of allegations against Mr. Manafort because they involved business dealings before the campaign, the latest indictment claims that he was scheming to defraud banks while serving as Mr. Trump’s chairman.Moreover, it remains unclear why he volunteered to work for Mr. Trump’s campaign without pay at a time when he was experiencing significant financial pressure.Mr. Trump’s defenders have focused on questioning the original basis for the investigation, accusing the F.B.I. of misconduct in relying on an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy hired by investigators working for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign.To the extent that Mr. Mueller is exploring whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey, the president’s defenders contend that under the Constitution, he has the power to dismiss executive branch officials and dictate their work. They also point to testimony by Mr. Comey and other officials who said the investigation was not impeded.Therefore, they argue, the original order appointing Mr. Mueller was itself invalid and should be revoked.In the meantime, they are left to interpret the clues from Mr. Mueller’s actions just like everyone else. David B. Rivkin Jr., a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Reagan and President George Bush, said the totality of Mr. Mueller’s actions still did not add up to a threat to Mr. Trump.“It doesn’t make sense to unfold piecemeal an indictment of Russian entities and Russians if you have any hope of building a collusion case. It makes no logical sense,” he said. “To me, at least, what he’s done does underscore that there’s no collusion there. That leaves him with the obstruction of justice narrative which I think is constitutionally flawed and isn’t going to go anywhere.”Mr. Wittes said Mr. Mueller’s actions could be seen as building a pyramid — establishing that there was a Russian influence campaign and assembling a group of cooperating witnesses. But the special counsel has not tipped his hand yet.“The basic contours of the puzzle is that he’s constructed his actions in a way that we don’t know where it’s leading,” he said, “and that’s on purpose.”WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.)He said the credit was “more important for other players who are much further away from the 200,000 United States sales mark.”In theory, the problem shouldn’t be difficult for Congress to fix. One approach would be to lift the 200,000 vehicle cap and continue the credit indefinitely, a move that would most likely be welcomed by makers and consumers of electric vehicles and has the support of green energy lobbying groups. But the price tag for the government could become prohibitive if electric car sales surge.Or Congress could phase out the incentives beginning at a target date that would apply to all manufacturers, or after total industry sales hit a level that suggests a move to electric vehicles is sustainable. Depending on the time or level of sales chosen, that could address concerns about the impact of the tax credit on the deficit.Tesla and G.M. have not proposed a specific fix.Many countries have far more robust subsidies for electric cars than the United States, including most of Europe. Norway has by far the highest percentage of electric car ownership in the world (about one-third of the vehicles sold there last year were electric or hybrid), along with the most lavish subsidies, which include sharply reduced sales taxes as well as free parking and use of uncongested bus lanes. The country has set a goal of zero auto emissions by 2025.While no one expects the United States to go to such an extreme, revising the electric vehicle tax credit and bolstering other incentives for renewable energy could be a rare source of bipartisan agreement. When it comes to jobs, a top priority for both Congress and the Trump administration, the Department of Energy reported that in 2016, 3.38 million Americans were employed in the clean energy sector, 10 percent more than the 2.99 million employed in fossil fuels.How the renewable energy subsidies managed to survive to be part of the tax law remains a subject of debate, but nearly every explanation points in part to Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa, the powerful Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee and a staunch supporter of renewable energy, especially wind. Iowa is a leader in wind power, which generates 36 percent of the state’s electricity. The wind power industry employs 9,000 people in the state, according to the Iowa Wind Energy Association. (Senator Grassley did not respond to requests for comment.)Trying to tamper with the renewable energy subsidies and the electric vehicle credit, as the House version of the tax bill did, “was asking for trouble,” said Dean Zerbe, former tax counsel for the Senate Finance Committee and a national managing director at Alliantgroup, which specializes in tax credits and incentives. “Certain senators wouldn’t budge on that.”With funding for the government scheduled to expire on Jan. 19, and with such a narrow Republican majority in the Senate, Republicans and Democrats in Congress have an incentive to find some common ground, which might include revising the electric vehicle credit.“I’ve talked to quite a few people interested in green energy provisions, and my sense is that you could find quite a bit of bipartisan support in the Senate,” Mr. Zerbe said. He noted that Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the ranking Democrat on the Finance Committee, is a passionate supporter of renewable energy and electric vehicles.Everyone I spoke to this week agreed something needed to be done. Imposing an arbitrary 200,000 cap on the tax credit is “a terrible way to approach tax policy,” Mr. Zerbe said. “Congress shouldn’t be picking winners and losers among companies.”Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”In the end, Mr. Sessions still drafted a resignation letter later that night and sent it to the White House. Mr. Priebus then went to work on Mr. Trump, arguing that he should not accept it. The president reluctantly agreed and Mr. Sessions stayed.But that did not end the danger to the attorney general. A couple months later, Mr. Trump took his anger with Mr. Sessions public by telling The New York Times in an interview that he would not have appointed him attorney general had he known that he would recuse himself.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.“I’ve long felt that if Trump didn’t do well, it would be because of organizational issues,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn’t been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere.”Mr. Elson said Mr. Trump acted more like the typical entrepreneur than an experienced manager. “A problem with entrepreneurs is that people get tired of it and they move on,” he said. “People just get worn out. At some point you need a real manager. A lot of entrepreneurs sell their businesses when they reach a certain size and they realize they can’t manage them.”Would naming Mr. Cohn as chief of staff ameliorate the problem? Despite disenchantment with Mr. Kelly and his handling of the Porter situation, no one I interviewed thinks Mr. Cohn could fundamentally change the dynamic in the Trump White House any more than Mr. Kelly has.Mr. Cohn is now basking in the afterglow of the tax legislation, which seems to be growing in popularity with the public. His supporters point to the first-rate team he assembled at the National Economic Council as evidence that he — perhaps alone among top White House officials — could attract and retain talent. He enjoys good relations with Congress.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).Of the 20 finalist cities, Indianapolis has the least traffic congestion and the lowest average home prices, according to the Chamber of Commerce. That’s not to say there aren’t high-end options: A 21,000-square-foot, six-bedroom 1930s-era mansion, currently home to the Indiana University chancellor, is on the market for just under $7 million. (It might be perfect for the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos.)For all its virtues, Indianapolis faces a number of hurdles. While Mr. Stutz told me that Salesforce had found an abundance of homegrown tech talent there, Amazon knows it will need to import many of the high-level software engineers and employees who will form the core of the work force at its second headquarters. That may be a challenge.Unlike Amazon’s home state of Washington, Indiana reliably votes Republican in presidential elections, though it went for Barack Obama over John McCain in 2008. Donald J. Trump carried the state overwhelmingly in 2016, and Mike Pence, an Indiana native and self-described religious conservative, served as Indiana’s governor before becoming Mr. Trump’s vice president.A strong streak of social conservatism runs through the state (though not so much in Indianapolis), and this week the state legislature was roiled by a new round in the culture wars as legislators debated whether to pass a hate-crimes bill to protect victims of bias based on race, religion, sex, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation. Indiana is one of only five states without such legislation.Partly as a result of pressure from Salesforce, other companies and the N.C.A.A., Mr. Pence, when he was governor, amended a so-called Religious Freedom Restoration Act in 2015 that had allowed business owners to discriminate against gays and lesbians on the grounds of religious principle.Mr. Huber said the Chamber of Commerce had been a longtime supporter of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights, and was a strong supporter of comprehensive anti-hate-crime legislation. The city has had a comprehensive human rights ordinance in place since 2005, he said.Indianapolis may never emerge as the popular favorite to win, but I wouldn’t count it out.Maureen Krauss, the chamber’s chief economic development officer, who worked on Indianapolis’s proposal, said a team of about 300 people had contributed to the first-round effort, and they worked 43 days straight.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.But Mr. Trump passed over Mr. Cohn for the post of Federal Reserve chairman. In late December Mr. Cohn told the news site Axios he would still be in the administration three months hence. Earlier this month the time frame seemed to have shrunk. Asked how long he would stay at the White House, Mr. Cohn said only, “I’m here today and I’m here next week.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.In particular, Republicans pointed to Andrew Weissmann, who served as F.B.I. general counsel under Mr. Mueller. Mr. Weissmann is a career prosecutor but, while in private law practice, donated thousands of dollars toward President Barack Obama’s election effort.In his Sunday morning Twitter blasts, Mr. Trump also renewed his attacks on James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, and Andrew G. McCabe, his former deputy, both of whom, like Mr. Mueller, are longtime Republicans. Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey last May, at first attributing the decision to the F.B.I. director’s handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server but later telling an interviewer that he had the Russia investigation in mind when he made the decision.Mr. Sessions, under intense public pressure from Mr. Trump, fired Mr. McCabe on Friday after an inspector general found that he had not been forthcoming about authorizing F.B.I. officials to provide information about the Clinton inquiry in 2016 to a reporter.“Wow, watch Comey lie under oath to Senator G when asked ‘have you ever been an anonymous source...or known someone else to be an anonymous source...?’” Mr. Trump wrote. “He said strongly ‘never, no.’ He lied as shown clearly on @foxandfriends.”Mr. Trump went on to dismiss reports that Mr. McCabe kept detailed memos of his time as deputy F.B.I. director, just as Mr. Comey did. Mr. McCabe left those memos with the F.B.I., which means Mr. Mueller’s team has access to them.“Spent very little time with Andrew McCabe, but he never took notes when he was with me,” Mr. Trump wrote. “I don’t believe he made memos except to help his own agenda, probably at a later date. Same with lying James Comey. Can we call them Fake Memos?”Michael R. Bromwich, Mr. McCabe’s lawyer, fired back by accusing the president of corrupting the law enforcement system. “We will not be responding to each childish, defamatory, disgusting & false tweet by the President,” he wrote on Twitter. “The whole truth will come out in due course. But the tweets confirm that he has corrupted the entire process that led to Mr. McCabe’s termination and has rendered it illegitimate.”In suggesting that Mr. Comey lied under oath to Congress, Mr. Trump appeared to refer to a comment by Mr. McCabe that the former director had authorized the news media interaction at the heart of the complaint against him. The president’s Republican allies picked up the point on Sunday and pressed for appointment of a prosecutor to look at the origin of the Russia investigation.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 concertgoers were killed by a gunman using firearms outfitted with bump stocks, public pressure grew to ban them. Justice Department and A.T.F. officials privately stuck by their earlier conclusion that they could not outlaw bump stocks, but with little appetite to tackle gun policy in Congress, Mr. Sessions asked the A.T.F. to review its determination.Agencies periodically scrutinize earlier rulings and change interpretations. What set apart the bump stock evaluation, according to former bureau officials, was Mr. Trump’s overt political pressure.“No disrespect intended, but I’m sure President Trump has no idea what exactly the authority is for A.T.F. or the D.O.J. to ban these things,” said Bradley A. Buckles, who was the head of the bureau from 1999 to 2004. “In all honesty, he doesn’t know what his authority is in that regard.”And in altering its 2010 interpretation made under former President Barack Obama, the bureau could be subject to lawsuits that tie up a bump stock ban in the courts.“The Justice Department and the A.T.F. are going to get sued, and Trump is going to get flak,” said Josh Blackman, a professor at South Texas College of Law in Houston. “Obama was correct in his interpretation of the statute. If you want to ban bump stocks, it has to be done through Congress.”The apparent reversal on bump stocks appears to be more political than legal, said Rick Vasquez, a former A.T.F. official who supervised the bureau’s prior determination on bump stocks.“They’re basically playing games with the regulations and the law right now just to make a political statement,” he said.Other presidents have also influenced Justice Department rule making to help their preferred policies come into fruition, then watched as those rules became fodder for lawsuits. Under Mr. Obama, the Justice Department created the legal underpinnings to protect undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children after Congress failed to address the issue. That program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, was the subject of multiple lawsuits.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. “We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are — or have been — what makes us a people.”Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the “whatever-it-takes-to-win politics” that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.There are several ways to revive the common good, Reich suggests. One is to recover the notion of leadership as trusteeship. Corporate executives should recognize responsibilities beyond maximizing profits, and public officials should resist the scorched-earth, anything-goes approach to politics. The essence of Trump’s failure as a leader, according to Reich, is “not that he has chosen one set of policies over another, or has divided rather than united Americans, or even that he has behaved in childish and vindictive ways unbecoming a president. It is that he has sacrificed the processes and institutions of American democracy to achieve his goals.”Reich also calls for a greater emphasis on civic education, including two years of mandatory public service, and efforts to resurrect truth from the miasma of political deceit and fake news. Perhaps the most distinctive measure Reich proposes is the redeployment of honor and shame. Rather than honor people for their wealth or celebrity, we should honor those who display genuine virtue, like whistle-blowers, firefighters, social workers and soldiers — people who perform hard or risky tasks that serve the common good. And we should shame those who, however wealthy, achieve their status through exploitative business practices or morally dubious financial dealings.Interestingly, in developing this theme, Reich favorably cites so-called “virtue conservatives” of the 1980s and 1990s. For example, he quotes William J. Bennett, the education secretary in the Reagan administration, who warned that “nonjudgmentalism … has permeated our culture, encouraging a paralysis of the moral faculty.” He also cites the conservative political scientist James Q. Wilson, who argued that neglecting broken windows in poor communities conveys a message of moral license, leading to an unraveling of social restraints and increased crime. Reich contends that people who get rich by exploiting norms of social trust — by evading taxes, say, or devising barely legal schemes of financial trickery — generate a similar unraveling.Against the grain of much liberal thinking, Reich acknowledges that promoting civic virtue requires being judgmental about what moral attitudes and qualities of character our public life should affirm and promote. This recognition of the role of moral judgment in politics is an important corrective to the liberal wariness of bringing morality into the public square.Reich’s proposals would make a good starting point for a new progressive political project. What is puzzling, however, is his insistence that a politics of the common good can or should be nonpartisan. Time and again, he draws a sharp distinction between the common good he wants to revive and the competing conceptions of the common good at stake in everyday political debate — about tax policy, health care, the environment and so on. He insists his book is not about what messages Democrats or Republicans should convey or what policies they should pursue, but rather about restoring our shared commitment to democratic norms and principles. “It’s our agreement to these principles that connects us, not agreement about where these principles lead.”Reich seems to believe that the common good describes ground rules for a decent society, not the policies and purposes that citizens should pursue within these ground rules. But is it really possible to separate the two? Is the debate over how vigorously to regulate Wall Street about the ground rules of democracy or a policy on which Democrats and Republicans may reasonably disagree? Or consider immigration. Reich argues that the common good is “not about securing borders, erecting walls and keeping others out …. To the contrary, the common good is about inclusion — joining together to achieve common goals.” But inclusion of whom — existing citizens of the country, Dreamers, other immigrants who hope to be admitted? Partisans on all sides of this raging debate invoke competing conceptions of the common good to support their position.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.He cited what have become known as the “chicken wars” of the early 1960s, a trade dispute set off when Germany and France imposed tariffs on American chicken. The United States retaliated by imposing tariffs on an array of goods, including French brandy, light trucks and Volkswagen buses. The United States even threatened to reduce its troop presence in Europe. Despite those pressures, the newly formed European Economic Community did not back down, and in that sense the United States “lost” the war.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.)He said the credit was “more important for other players who are much further away from the 200,000 United States sales mark.”In theory, the problem shouldn’t be difficult for Congress to fix. One approach would be to lift the 200,000 vehicle cap and continue the credit indefinitely, a move that would most likely be welcomed by makers and consumers of electric vehicles and has the support of green energy lobbying groups. But the price tag for the government could become prohibitive if electric car sales surge.Or Congress could phase out the incentives beginning at a target date that would apply to all manufacturers, or after total industry sales hit a level that suggests a move to electric vehicles is sustainable. Depending on the time or level of sales chosen, that could address concerns about the impact of the tax credit on the deficit.Tesla and G.M. have not proposed a specific fix.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.WASHINGTON — Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director who was fired late Friday, kept contemporaneous memos about his interactions with President Trump and his conversations with the former director James B. Comey, a person close to Mr. McCabe said on Saturday.The memos could bolster the account of Mr. Comey, whose own memos and testimony describe repeated requests by Mr. Trump to clear his name. Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump also asked him to shut down a criminal investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Both matters are under investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is considering whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.Mr. McCabe’s memos were left at the F.B.I., which means that Mr. Mueller’s investigators have access to them as they work to corroborate Mr. Comey’s account. Mr. Trump has denied pressuring Mr. Comey to end the Flynn investigation. Mr. Comey was fired last spring, and the revelation of his conversations with Mr. Trump helped lead to the special counsel’s appointment.Mr. McCabe is known to have had at least three meetings with the president. In one, he asked Mr. McCabe how he had voted in the presidential election. In each, he asked about Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill, who ran a failed campaign as a Democrat for the Virginia State Senate. Mr. McCabe has identified as a lifelong Republican but did not vote in the 2016 presidential race.The existence of his memos was first reported by The Associated Press.Mr. McCabe was fired less than two days before his retirement. Attorney General Jeff Sessions cited what he said was a lack of candor by Mr. McCabe in interviews with internal investigators. His firing had been recommended by career disciplinary officials at the F.B.I.Mr. McCabe immediately declared that his firing was part of a Trump administration effort to discredit him and damage the special counsel’s investigation. In an interview, he said he had not made false statements. “This is part of an effort to discredit me as a witness,” he said.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”Much the same can be said about unemployment, which fell to 4.1 percent from 4.7 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year as president, and which also reflects the tight labor market conditions that have been developing for years. The unemployment rate fell much more during the Obama years (three full percentage points, from when Mr. Obama took office until when he left), which would be expected given the severe recession he inherited.In any event, it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s impact on the labor market. Economists generally agree that at least some of the Republican tax cuts will flow through to workers, although there are widely differing projections about how much, and most say the largest share will go to shareholders in the form of dividends, stock buybacks and higher share prices. Professor Slemrod said we may never know for sure, but “in five or six years we may be able to tell if some of the more extreme claims are reasonable.”It’s interesting what President Trump didn’t claim any credit for: low interest rates and inflation. Perhaps that’s because they’re moving upward, although slowly, and pose the biggest threat to the economic indicators he extolled. (On Wednesday the Federal Reserve kept its benchmark rate unchanged after raising it three times during the last year.)Unlike the 1986 tax legislation, which claimed to be revenue-neutral, the latest Republican bill is a huge tax cut. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new law would add just over $1 trillion to the deficit over the next decade. It predicted higher interest rates as a result, which it estimated would cost the Treasury an additional $66 billion in debt service costs.Some supporters of the tax law contend that economic growth will come so quickly that increased tax revenue will more than make up for the cuts. The actual impact on the deficit won’t be evident for at least a year, but the rising deficits that followed tax cuts in 1981 forced Republicans to raise taxes in both 1982 and 1984.Interest rates are already trending higher. Both Professors Auerbach and Slemrod agreed that rates are likely to rise further and would be an important measure of the impact of the tax legislation and Mr. Trump’s economic policies. If they rise faster than at the cautious pace the Federal Reserve has projected and investors expect, that could bring the stock market rally to an abrupt end. Higher-than-expected rates could also slow the economy, or even tip it into recession.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.Another reason to know your nenes is that, although rare in the wild, they often come up in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in Times crosswords 295 times since 1944.It appeared in the puzzle on March 12 with the clue “Hawaiian goose.” The word might also appear in easy puzzles with the clue “Hawaiian state bird” or “Hawaiian honker.”Later in the week, as the crosswords become harder, it might be referred to as “Aloha State bird,” “Endangered state bird,” “Lava geese,” “Bird so-called from its call” or “Gray-brown goose.”You can find out about the nene and other birds that appear regularly in our Crossword Aviary.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, ScienceFew investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. “We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are — or have been — what makes us a people.”Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the “whatever-it-takes-to-win politics” that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.Still, there are “a few” undervalued opportunities, Mr. Dodson said. He cited the health care sector: The biotech concern Gilead Sciences and the generic-drug maker Perrigo are two of his fund’s largest holdings. The toymaker Mattel “is on the bargain table,” he said. And even in technology, his fund has a large position in Qualcomm, currently fighting a takeover bid by the rival chip-maker Broadcom.If so much is indeed overvalued, then this year’s market could well reward discerning active managers. “I worry about the index funds,” Mr. Dodson said. “They’re getting close to 25 percent in technology, given the high valuations and market caps. If there’s a reversal, it’s going to hit the index funds hard. This may finally be the year that active managers outperform.”WASHINGTON — Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director who was fired late Friday, kept contemporaneous memos about his interactions with President Trump and his conversations with the former director James B. Comey, a person close to Mr. McCabe said on Saturday.The memos could bolster the account of Mr. Comey, whose own memos and testimony describe repeated requests by Mr. Trump to clear his name. Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump also asked him to shut down a criminal investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Both matters are under investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is considering whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.Mr. McCabe’s memos were left at the F.B.I., which means that Mr. Mueller’s investigators have access to them as they work to corroborate Mr. Comey’s account. Mr. Trump has denied pressuring Mr. Comey to end the Flynn investigation. Mr. Comey was fired last spring, and the revelation of his conversations with Mr. Trump helped lead to the special counsel’s appointment.Mr. McCabe is known to have had at least three meetings with the president. In one, he asked Mr. McCabe how he had voted in the presidential election. In each, he asked about Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill, who ran a failed campaign as a Democrat for the Virginia State Senate. Mr. McCabe has identified as a lifelong Republican but did not vote in the 2016 presidential race.The existence of his memos was first reported by The Associated Press.Mr. McCabe was fired less than two days before his retirement. Attorney General Jeff Sessions cited what he said was a lack of candor by Mr. McCabe in interviews with internal investigators. His firing had been recommended by career disciplinary officials at the F.B.I.Mr. McCabe immediately declared that his firing was part of a Trump administration effort to discredit him and damage the special counsel’s investigation. In an interview, he said he had not made false statements. “This is part of an effort to discredit me as a witness,” he said.He was among the first F.B.I. officials to scrutinize possible Trump campaign ties to Russia. Mr. Trump has taunted Mr. McCabe both publicly and privately, and Republican allies of the president have cast Mr. McCabe as the center of a “deep state” effort to undermine the Trump presidency.His lawyer, Michael R. Bromwich, said Justice Department officials had rushed to fire Mr. McCabe before he could qualify for his pension. “This distortion of the process begins at the very top, with the president’s repeated offensive, drive-by Twitter attacks on Mr. McCabe,” Mr. Bromwich said late Friday.Mr. Trump kept up his Twitter barrage on Saturday, pointing to hundreds of thousands of dollars in donations to Ms. McCabe’s campaign from a political committee run by Terry McAuliffe, the former Virginia governor and a longtime ally of the Clintons.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”____WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 concertgoers were killed by a gunman using firearms outfitted with bump stocks, public pressure grew to ban them. Justice Department and A.T.F. officials privately stuck by their earlier conclusion that they could not outlaw bump stocks, but with little appetite to tackle gun policy in Congress, Mr. Sessions asked the A.T.F. to review its determination.Agencies periodically scrutinize earlier rulings and change interpretations. What set apart the bump stock evaluation, according to former bureau officials, was Mr. Trump’s overt political pressure.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”Mr. Sessions’s standing with Mr. Trump has eroded in his year as attorney general. The president criticized his Senate confirmation performance and his decision to remove himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, even musing that he would not have hired Mr. Sessions had he anticipated the recusal. He berated him so severely over Mr. Mueller’s appointment that Mr. Sessions offered his resignation.That fraught relationship has impaired Mr. Sessions’s ability to act as a bulwark between his lawyers and politics, former career prosecutors said.“Sessions’s silence is evidence that Trump’s public neutering of anyone close to this investigation is working,” said Paul Pelletier, a Democratic candidate for Congress in Virginia who was a federal prosecutor for nearly three decades. “It is deleterious to the whole criminal justice process.”Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administration’s justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called “an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congress’s role in passing immigration laws.”The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the state’s chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.Labor discipline was another matter. In the farming and domestic work that people had been doing for generations, “intense activity alternated with slack times,” whereas factory production was repetitive and continuous, requiring “coordinated activity by dozens or hundreds of workers, who were expected to start and stop work at the same time, day after day.”Now that factory work and stable, blue-collar jobs are such potent sources of nostalgia, it can be hard to recall how truly disruptive the manufacturing age was. Freeman does a superb job of reminding us. For an agrarian society like England, the factory generated a wistfulness for the bucolic agricultural past. The “dark Satanic Mills” bemoaned by William Blake were powered by steam and coal-fired boilers that belched smoke and soot. Seventy-hour work weeks were common. Male workers chafed at the constant supervision on the factory floor, and owners preferred not to employ men, anyway. “Today, in the United States, factories are associated with masculinity,” Freeman writes, “but in their early days they were spaces largely occupied by women and children.”(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”____10. Finally, as the hit show “Fixer Upper” ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.On the late-night shows, Jimmy Fallon said he didn’t have high hopes for President Trump’s trip to Peru for the Summit of the Americas next week: “When he saw it on his schedule, Trump was like, ‘Wait, there’s more than one America? What is this?’”On Monday night, Mr. Fallon will have a co-host for the first time: The rapper Cardi B, who just released her first album, “Invasion of Privacy.”With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).Of the 20 finalist cities, Indianapolis has the least traffic congestion and the lowest average home prices, according to the Chamber of Commerce. That’s not to say there aren’t high-end options: A 21,000-square-foot, six-bedroom 1930s-era mansion, currently home to the Indiana University chancellor, is on the market for just under $7 million. (It might be perfect for the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos.)For all its virtues, Indianapolis faces a number of hurdles. While Mr. Stutz told me that Salesforce had found an abundance of homegrown tech talent there, Amazon knows it will need to import many of the high-level software engineers and employees who will form the core of the work force at its second headquarters. That may be a challenge.Unlike Amazon’s home state of Washington, Indiana reliably votes Republican in presidential elections, though it went for Barack Obama over John McCain in 2008. Donald J. Trump carried the state overwhelmingly in 2016, and Mike Pence, an Indiana native and self-described religious conservative, served as Indiana’s governor before becoming Mr. Trump’s vice president.A strong streak of social conservatism runs through the state (though not so much in Indianapolis), and this week the state legislature was roiled by a new round in the culture wars as legislators debated whether to pass a hate-crimes bill to protect victims of bias based on race, religion, sex, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation. Indiana is one of only five states without such legislation.Partly as a result of pressure from Salesforce, other companies and the N.C.A.A., Mr. Pence, when he was governor, amended a so-called Religious Freedom Restoration Act in 2015 that had allowed business owners to discriminate against gays and lesbians on the grounds of religious principle.Mr. Huber said the Chamber of Commerce had been a longtime supporter of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights, and was a strong supporter of comprehensive anti-hate-crime legislation. The city has had a comprehensive human rights ordinance in place since 2005, he said.Indianapolis may never emerge as the popular favorite to win, but I wouldn’t count it out.THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. “We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are — or have been — what makes us a people.”Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the “whatever-it-takes-to-win politics” that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.There are several ways to revive the common good, Reich suggests. One is to recover the notion of leadership as trusteeship. Corporate executives should recognize responsibilities beyond maximizing profits, and public officials should resist the scorched-earth, anything-goes approach to politics. The essence of Trump’s failure as a leader, according to Reich, is “not that he has chosen one set of policies over another, or has divided rather than united Americans, or even that he has behaved in childish and vindictive ways unbecoming a president. It is that he has sacrificed the processes and institutions of American democracy to achieve his goals.”Reich also calls for a greater emphasis on civic education, including two years of mandatory public service, and efforts to resurrect truth from the miasma of political deceit and fake news. Perhaps the most distinctive measure Reich proposes is the redeployment of honor and shame. Rather than honor people for their wealth or celebrity, we should honor those who display genuine virtue, like whistle-blowers, firefighters, social workers and soldiers — people who perform hard or risky tasks that serve the common good. And we should shame those who, however wealthy, achieve their status through exploitative business practices or morally dubious financial dealings.Interestingly, in developing this theme, Reich favorably cites so-called “virtue conservatives” of the 1980s and 1990s. For example, he quotes William J. Bennett, the education secretary in the Reagan administration, who warned that “nonjudgmentalism … has permeated our culture, encouraging a paralysis of the moral faculty.” He also cites the conservative political scientist James Q. Wilson, who argued that neglecting broken windows in poor communities conveys a message of moral license, leading to an unraveling of social restraints and increased crime. Reich contends that people who get rich by exploiting norms of social trust — by evading taxes, say, or devising barely legal schemes of financial trickery — generate a similar unraveling.Against the grain of much liberal thinking, Reich acknowledges that promoting civic virtue requires being judgmental about what moral attitudes and qualities of character our public life should affirm and promote. This recognition of the role of moral judgment in politics is an important corrective to the liberal wariness of bringing morality into the public square.Reich’s proposals would make a good starting point for a new progressive political project. What is puzzling, however, is his insistence that a politics of the common good can or should be nonpartisan. Time and again, he draws a sharp distinction between the common good he wants to revive and the competing conceptions of the common good at stake in everyday political debate — about tax policy, health care, the environment and so on. He insists his book is not about what messages Democrats or Republicans should convey or what policies they should pursue, but rather about restoring our shared commitment to democratic norms and principles. “It’s our agreement to these principles that connects us, not agreement about where these principles lead.”Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.) (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.WASHINGTON — Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director who was fired late Friday, kept contemporaneous memos about his interactions with President Trump and his conversations with the former director James B. Comey, a person close to Mr. McCabe said on Saturday.WASHINGTON — Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director who was fired late Friday, kept contemporaneous memos about his interactions with President Trump and his conversations with the former director James B. Comey, a person close to Mr. McCabe said on Saturday.The memos could bolster the account of Mr. Comey, whose own memos and testimony describe repeated requests by Mr. Trump to clear his name. Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump also asked him to shut down a criminal investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Both matters are under investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is considering whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.Mr. McCabe’s memos were left at the F.B.I., which means that Mr. Mueller’s investigators have access to them as they work to corroborate Mr. Comey’s account. Mr. Trump has denied pressuring Mr. Comey to end the Flynn investigation. Mr. Comey was fired last spring, and the revelation of his conversations with Mr. Trump helped lead to the special counsel’s appointment.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”WASHINGTON — Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director who was fired late Friday, kept contemporaneous memos about his interactions with President Trump and his conversations with the former director James B. Comey, a person close to Mr. McCabe said on Saturday.The memos could bolster the account of Mr. Comey, whose own memos and testimony describe repeated requests by Mr. Trump to clear his name. Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump also asked him to shut down a criminal investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Both matters are under investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is considering whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.Mr. McCabe’s memos were left at the F.B.I., which means that Mr. Mueller’s investigators have access to them as they work to corroborate Mr. Comey’s account. Mr. Trump has denied pressuring Mr. Comey to end the Flynn investigation. Mr. Comey was fired last spring, and the revelation of his conversations with Mr. Trump helped lead to the special counsel’s appointment.Mr. McCabe is known to have had at least three meetings with the president. In one, he asked Mr. McCabe how he had voted in the presidential election. In each, he asked about Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill, who ran a failed campaign as a Democrat for the Virginia State Senate. Mr. McCabe has identified as a lifelong Republican but did not vote in the 2016 presidential race.The existence of his memos was first reported by The Associated Press.Mr. McCabe was fired less than two days before his retirement. Attorney General Jeff Sessions cited what he said was a lack of candor by Mr. McCabe in interviews with internal investigators. His firing had been recommended by career disciplinary officials at the F.B.I.Mr. McCabe immediately declared that his firing was part of a Trump administration effort to discredit him and damage the special counsel’s investigation. In an interview, he said he had not made false statements. “This is part of an effort to discredit me as a witness,” he said.He was among the first F.B.I. officials to scrutinize possible Trump campaign ties to Russia. Mr. Trump has taunted Mr. McCabe both publicly and privately, and Republican allies of the president have cast Mr. McCabe as the center of a “deep state” effort to undermine the Trump presidency.His lawyer, Michael R. Bromwich, said Justice Department officials had rushed to fire Mr. McCabe before he could qualify for his pension. “This distortion of the process begins at the very top, with the president’s repeated offensive, drive-by Twitter attacks on Mr. McCabe,” Mr. Bromwich said late Friday.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themWASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administration’s justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called “an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congress’s role in passing immigration laws.”The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the state’s chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The next major court fight between California and the Trump administration may involve greenhouse gas emissions.The state has a waiver under the Clean Air Act that allows it to enforce stronger air pollution standards than those set by the federal government.Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has said he is dissatisfied with that state of affairs.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.Once I reached the station, I learned that the next New Jersey Transit train wouldn’t arrive for 50 minutes. When I went to the enclosed (and presumably heated) waiting area, it was empty, and entry was barred by a guard at the door.A Port Authority official said the area was closed because of an unattended bag. Some time after I left, it reopened when a police dog certified in bomb detection determined the bag was harmless.A New Jersey Transit spokeswoman, Nancy Snyder, explained that weekend service from Newark Airport is “limited” because of Amtrak maintenance work. Only three trains run per hour, clustered within the first 20 minutes of the hour, she said, and I evidently missed the last of those.The number of New Jersey Transit trains is also constrained by tunnel capacity under the Hudson River. Although a new rail tunnel has been one of the country’s top infrastructure priorities for years, in January the Trump administration cast doubt on the federal government’s commitment to fund half the cost of the first phase of the project, estimated at $11 billion. (New York and New Jersey have pledged to pay the rest.)In 2010, of course, Mr. Christie famously canceled a project for a new Hudson River tunnel, citing cost overruns, a decision whose reverberations continue to be felt by New Jersey’s beleaguered commuters.The train, when it finally arrived, was packed. I found a seat, but other passengers were standing. Mr. Christie’s successor as governor, Phil Murphy, has called New Jersey Transit a “national disgrace” and has pledged better funding and improvements.Once we reached Penn Station, the escalator leading from the platform was broken, creating a logjam at the narrow stairways as passengers struggled with heavy luggage.Ms. Snyder said that New Jersey Transit maintains nine escalators on the Seventh Avenue side of Penn Station and that, as of this week, all were functioning. But she recommended passengers use the Eighth Avenue side of the station, which offers better access to and from platforms.After I passed through Penn Station (no further comment needed) the final indignity was a broken escalator leading to Seventh Avenue, which is Amtrak’s responsibility. The 39 escalators in Penn Station maintained by Amtrak, many of them dating to the 1960s, are notorious for malfunctioning. They can take months to repair, as The Wall Street Journal reported in 2015.Last year, referring to commuters’ “summer of agony,” Mr. Cuomo said conditions at Penn Station had become “intolerable” and sent a letter to the White House asking Mr. Trump for emergency funding. The governor also called for removing the station from cash-starved Amtrak’s jurisdiction as part of a “long-term solution.”Other than acknowledging receipt of the letter, the White House hasn’t responded.WASHINGTON — President Trump asked the man he was considering as temporary F.B.I. director how he had voted in the 2016 presidential election, according to a person familiar with the discussion.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”In the end, Mr. Sessions still drafted a resignation letter later that night and sent it to the White House. Mr. Priebus then went to work on Mr. Trump, arguing that he should not accept it. The president reluctantly agreed and Mr. Sessions stayed.But that did not end the danger to the attorney general. A couple months later, Mr. Trump took his anger with Mr. Sessions public by telling The New York Times in an interview that he would not have appointed him attorney general had he known that he would recuse himself.Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump once again demanded Mr. Sessions’s resignation. Citing a White House insider, Mr. Whipple’s book says the president told Mr. Priebus to act on his order. “Don’t try to slow me down like you always do,” Mr. Trump told him. “Get the resignation of Jeff Sessions.”Mr. Priebus, however, did try to slow him down and argued that pushing out Mr. Sessions would result in the resignations of the second- and third-ranking Justice Department officials too. “If I get this resignation, you are in for a spiral of calamity that makes Comey look like a picnic,” Mr. Priebus warned him. Again, Mr. Trump backed down.But in other ways he did not. Mr. Priebus said he and other aides — including Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter; Jared Kushner, his son-in-law; and Hope Hicks, his communications director — regularly tried to convince Mr. Trump that his random, often incendiary Twitter messages were self-destructive.“I told him, ‘Some of it’s not helpful, it causes distraction. We can get thrown off our message by tweeting things that aren’t the issues of the day,’” he said. But he did not get through. “Everybody tried at different times to cool down the Twitter habit — but no one could do it. Not me, Jared, Ivanka, Hope.”Even the first lady weighed in when her husband addressed Congress. “After the joint session, we all talked to him and Melania said, ‘No tweeting,’” Mr. Priebus said. “And he said, ‘OK — for the next few days.’ We had many discussions involving this issue. We had meetings in the residence. I couldn’t stop it.”THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.He cited what have become known as the “chicken wars” of the early 1960s, a trade dispute set off when Germany and France imposed tariffs on American chicken. The United States retaliated by imposing tariffs on an array of goods, including French brandy, light trucks and Volkswagen buses. The United States even threatened to reduce its troop presence in Europe. Despite those pressures, the newly formed European Economic Community did not back down, and in that sense the United States “lost” the war.The biggest losers, though, were American and European consumers deprived of choices in the marketplace and forced to pay higher prices for what was available.There were also unintended consequences. American automakers, insulated from foreign competition by the tariffs, failed to modernize, improve quality or reduce costs, setting the stage for a decades-long decline, which for Chrysler and General Motors ended in bankruptcy.Much the same can be said of the United States steel industry, which since World War II has probably received more protection from tariffs and quotas than any other industry. “They just used the protection to raise prices, fatten profits, pay their executives more and avoid automating and reducing costs,” Professor Conybeare said. “They didn’t use the breathing space they gained to modernize. So much of the U.S. steel industry is using obsolete technology, which is why they can’t compete.”Decades of tariff protection have done little to stem the industry’s decline. Domestic steel employment dropped from 135,000 in 2000 to 83,600 in 2016, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.Much like Mr. Trump, President George W. Bush veered from Republican free trade orthodoxy in 2002 when he imposed tariffs of up to 30 percent on certain steel products to counter what he claimed was a surge of imports (Canada, Mexico and a number of developing countries were exempted). Although the tariffs were loudly condemned by many Republicans, politicians from steel-producing states supported the move and protectionist Democrats like Representative Richard Gephardt of Missouri argued that the measures did not go far enough.The European Union filed charges with the World Trade Organization, which ruled that the tariffs were illegal and discriminatory and authorized up to $2 billion in retaliatory measures. The E.U. threatened tariffs on a variety of American products, including autos and Florida oranges.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. “We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are — or have been — what makes us a people.”Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the “whatever-it-takes-to-win politics” that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.There are several ways to revive the common good, Reich suggests. One is to recover the notion of leadership as trusteeship. Corporate executives should recognize responsibilities beyond maximizing profits, and public officials should resist the scorched-earth, anything-goes approach to politics. The essence of Trump’s failure as a leader, according to Reich, is “not that he has chosen one set of policies over another, or has divided rather than united Americans, or even that he has behaved in childish and vindictive ways unbecoming a president. It is that he has sacrificed the processes and institutions of American democracy to achieve his goals.”The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.In particular, Republicans pointed to Andrew Weissmann, who served as F.B.I. general counsel under Mr. Mueller. Mr. Weissmann is a career prosecutor but, while in private law practice, donated thousands of dollars toward President Barack Obama’s election effort.In his Sunday morning Twitter blasts, Mr. Trump also renewed his attacks on James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, and Andrew G. McCabe, his former deputy, both of whom, like Mr. Mueller, are longtime Republicans. Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey last May, at first attributing the decision to the F.B.I. director’s handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server but later telling an interviewer that he had the Russia investigation in mind when he made the decision.Mr. Sessions, under intense public pressure from Mr. Trump, fired Mr. McCabe on Friday after an inspector general found that he had not been forthcoming about authorizing F.B.I. officials to provide information about the Clinton inquiry in 2016 to a reporter.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administration’s justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called “an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congress’s role in passing immigration laws.”The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the state’s chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The next major court fight between California and the Trump administration may involve greenhouse gas emissions.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. “We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are — or have been — what makes us a people.”Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the “whatever-it-takes-to-win politics” that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.There are several ways to revive the common good, Reich suggests. One is to recover the notion of leadership as trusteeship. Corporate executives should recognize responsibilities beyond maximizing profits, and public officials should resist the scorched-earth, anything-goes approach to politics. The essence of Trump’s failure as a leader, according to Reich, is “not that he has chosen one set of policies over another, or has divided rather than united Americans, or even that he has behaved in childish and vindictive ways unbecoming a president. It is that he has sacrificed the processes and institutions of American democracy to achieve his goals.”Reich also calls for a greater emphasis on civic education, including two years of mandatory public service, and efforts to resurrect truth from the miasma of political deceit and fake news. Perhaps the most distinctive measure Reich proposes is the redeployment of honor and shame. Rather than honor people for their wealth or celebrity, we should honor those who display genuine virtue, like whistle-blowers, firefighters, social workers and soldiers — people who perform hard or risky tasks that serve the common good. And we should shame those who, however wealthy, achieve their status through exploitative business practices or morally dubious financial dealings.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”Much the same can be said about unemployment, which fell to 4.1 percent from 4.7 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year as president, and which also reflects the tight labor market conditions that have been developing for years. The unemployment rate fell much more during the Obama years (three full percentage points, from when Mr. Obama took office until when he left), which would be expected given the severe recession he inherited.In any event, it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s impact on the labor market. Economists generally agree that at least some of the Republican tax cuts will flow through to workers, although there are widely differing projections about how much, and most say the largest share will go to shareholders in the form of dividends, stock buybacks and higher share prices. Professor Slemrod said we may never know for sure, but “in five or six years we may be able to tell if some of the more extreme claims are reasonable.”It’s interesting what President Trump didn’t claim any credit for: low interest rates and inflation. Perhaps that’s because they’re moving upward, although slowly, and pose the biggest threat to the economic indicators he extolled. (On Wednesday the Federal Reserve kept its benchmark rate unchanged after raising it three times during the last year.)The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.Once I reached the station, I learned that the next New Jersey Transit train wouldn’t arrive for 50 minutes. When I went to the enclosed (and presumably heated) waiting area, it was empty, and entry was barred by a guard at the door.A Port Authority official said the area was closed because of an unattended bag. Some time after I left, it reopened when a police dog certified in bomb detection determined the bag was harmless.A New Jersey Transit spokeswoman, Nancy Snyder, explained that weekend service from Newark Airport is “limited” because of Amtrak maintenance work. Only three trains run per hour, clustered within the first 20 minutes of the hour, she said, and I evidently missed the last of those.The number of New Jersey Transit trains is also constrained by tunnel capacity under the Hudson River. Although a new rail tunnel has been one of the country’s top infrastructure priorities for years, in January the Trump administration cast doubt on the federal government’s commitment to fund half the cost of the first phase of the project, estimated at $11 billion. (New York and New Jersey have pledged to pay the rest.)In 2010, of course, Mr. Christie famously canceled a project for a new Hudson River tunnel, citing cost overruns, a decision whose reverberations continue to be felt by New Jersey’s beleaguered commuters.The train, when it finally arrived, was packed. I found a seat, but other passengers were standing. Mr. Christie’s successor as governor, Phil Murphy, has called New Jersey Transit a “national disgrace” and has pledged better funding and improvements.Once we reached Penn Station, the escalator leading from the platform was broken, creating a logjam at the narrow stairways as passengers struggled with heavy luggage.Ms. Snyder said that New Jersey Transit maintains nine escalators on the Seventh Avenue side of Penn Station and that, as of this week, all were functioning. But she recommended passengers use the Eighth Avenue side of the station, which offers better access to and from platforms.After I passed through Penn Station (no further comment needed) the final indignity was a broken escalator leading to Seventh Avenue, which is Amtrak’s responsibility. The 39 escalators in Penn Station maintained by Amtrak, many of them dating to the 1960s, are notorious for malfunctioning. They can take months to repair, as The Wall Street Journal reported in 2015.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVThe Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.Once I reached the station, I learned that the next New Jersey Transit train wouldn’t arrive for 50 minutes. When I went to the enclosed (and presumably heated) waiting area, it was empty, and entry was barred by a guard at the door.A Port Authority official said the area was closed because of an unattended bag. Some time after I left, it reopened when a police dog certified in bomb detection determined the bag was harmless.A New Jersey Transit spokeswoman, Nancy Snyder, explained that weekend service from Newark Airport is “limited” because of Amtrak maintenance work. Only three trains run per hour, clustered within the first 20 minutes of the hour, she said, and I evidently missed the last of those.The number of New Jersey Transit trains is also constrained by tunnel capacity under the Hudson River. Although a new rail tunnel has been one of the country’s top infrastructure priorities for years, in January the Trump administration cast doubt on the federal government’s commitment to fund half the cost of the first phase of the project, estimated at $11 billion. (New York and New Jersey have pledged to pay the rest.)In 2010, of course, Mr. Christie famously canceled a project for a new Hudson River tunnel, citing cost overruns, a decision whose reverberations continue to be felt by New Jersey’s beleaguered commuters.The train, when it finally arrived, was packed. I found a seat, but other passengers were standing. Mr. Christie’s successor as governor, Phil Murphy, has called New Jersey Transit a “national disgrace” and has pledged better funding and improvements.Once we reached Penn Station, the escalator leading from the platform was broken, creating a logjam at the narrow stairways as passengers struggled with heavy luggage.Ms. Snyder said that New Jersey Transit maintains nine escalators on the Seventh Avenue side of Penn Station and that, as of this week, all were functioning. But she recommended passengers use the Eighth Avenue side of the station, which offers better access to and from platforms.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”Much the same can be said about unemployment, which fell to 4.1 percent from 4.7 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year as president, and which also reflects the tight labor market conditions that have been developing for years. The unemployment rate fell much more during the Obama years (three full percentage points, from when Mr. Obama took office until when he left), which would be expected given the severe recession he inherited.In any event, it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s impact on the labor market. Economists generally agree that at least some of the Republican tax cuts will flow through to workers, although there are widely differing projections about how much, and most say the largest share will go to shareholders in the form of dividends, stock buybacks and higher share prices. Professor Slemrod said we may never know for sure, but “in five or six years we may be able to tell if some of the more extreme claims are reasonable.”It’s interesting what President Trump didn’t claim any credit for: low interest rates and inflation. Perhaps that’s because they’re moving upward, although slowly, and pose the biggest threat to the economic indicators he extolled. (On Wednesday the Federal Reserve kept its benchmark rate unchanged after raising it three times during the last year.)Unlike the 1986 tax legislation, which claimed to be revenue-neutral, the latest Republican bill is a huge tax cut. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new law would add just over $1 trillion to the deficit over the next decade. It predicted higher interest rates as a result, which it estimated would cost the Treasury an additional $66 billion in debt service costs.Some supporters of the tax law contend that economic growth will come so quickly that increased tax revenue will more than make up for the cuts. The actual impact on the deficit won’t be evident for at least a year, but the rising deficits that followed tax cuts in 1981 forced Republicans to raise taxes in both 1982 and 1984.Interest rates are already trending higher. Both Professors Auerbach and Slemrod agreed that rates are likely to rise further and would be an important measure of the impact of the tax legislation and Mr. Trump’s economic policies. If they rise faster than at the cautious pace the Federal Reserve has projected and investors expect, that could bring the stock market rally to an abrupt end. Higher-than-expected rates could also slow the economy, or even tip it into recession.How sensitive the stock market is to interest rates was on display the same day as Mr. Trump’s speech, when shares plunged on fears of higher rates after the 10-year Treasury yield rose above 2.7 percent; that’s still very low by historic standards, but higher than when Mr. Trump took office.The big tax cut is a large economic stimulus, and “right now stimulus is a danger,” said Professor Auerbach, given that there is nearly full employment and already-strong economic growth.We’ll know a year from now whether the Federal Reserve stuck with its projected three increases in rates this year, and whether any exceeded quarter-point increments.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.Still, there are “a few” undervalued opportunities, Mr. Dodson said. He cited the health care sector: The biotech concern Gilead Sciences and the generic-drug maker Perrigo are two of his fund’s largest holdings. The toymaker Mattel “is on the bargain table,” he said. And even in technology, his fund has a large position in Qualcomm, currently fighting a takeover bid by the rival chip-maker Broadcom.If so much is indeed overvalued, then this year’s market could well reward discerning active managers. “I worry about the index funds,” Mr. Dodson said. “They’re getting close to 25 percent in technology, given the high valuations and market caps. If there’s a reversal, it’s going to hit the index funds hard. This may finally be the year that active managers outperform.”Mr. Stack agreed. “Active management isn’t about beating the market but about achieving market gains within a defined acceptance of risk,” he said. “There are selective opportunities, but you have to dig to find them. None are true bargains anymore.”He recently bought shares in the diversified industrial manufacturer Ingersoll Rand and is moving his portfolio toward more defensive positions in consumer staples, energy and materials. “I’d rather be early with portfolio defenses and leave some profits on the table than go into a bear market fully exposed,” he said.Mr. Stack said that in examining bull markets over the past 50 years, he had found that both the technology and energy sectors outperformed in the late stages of a bull market. He said investors “should have some portion of their portfolio in the materials sector, notably energy, which had been so out of favor” until mid-2017.In my outlook column last year, Damien Courvalin, head of energy research for Goldman Sachs’s Global Investment Research commodities team, was uncannily accurate in forecasting that oil prices would recover in 2017 and stabilize at $55 to $60 per barrel. (West Texas intermediate crude oil futures ended the year at $60.42.) So I asked him what his team was predicting this year.“From a total-return perspective, it’s quite compelling to be invested in commodities,” he said — even though he doesn’t see oil prices rising much above current levels by year’s end. That’s because, thanks to the shale oil revolution, producers outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries can easily ramp up production when prices are $60 to $65. But commodities investors can still make a profit, he said, by betting on stable to rising prices in the futures market.Like Mr. Stack, Mr. Courvalin noted that commodities and energy typically do well in the late stages of an economic expansion. Non-energy commodities may do even better, since they have no equivalent to shale and mining companies can’t increase production quickly in response to rising prices. In the mining sector, “margins are improving, orders are picking up, and we’re seeing new investment,” he said.It may seem a paradox that investors’ worries about the coming year are mounting even as the economic outlook seems so bright. “Investors are struggling with this market because the skies are blue,” Mr. Stack said. “It’s rare when you have an investing climate like this one, where it’s all but impossible to find something to worry about, either domestically or globally.”But that’s true in the late stages of most bull markets, he said, meaning investors need to be alert. And while virtually no one can foresee the next catalyst for a correction or bear market, even a hint that the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates more than expected would most likely set off seismic tremors.“Most bull markets die by the sword of the Fed,” Mr. Stack said.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.Once I reached the station, I learned that the next New Jersey Transit train wouldn’t arrive for 50 minutes. When I went to the enclosed (and presumably heated) waiting area, it was empty, and entry was barred by a guard at the door.A Port Authority official said the area was closed because of an unattended bag. Some time after I left, it reopened when a police dog certified in bomb detection determined the bag was harmless.A New Jersey Transit spokeswoman, Nancy Snyder, explained that weekend service from Newark Airport is “limited” because of Amtrak maintenance work. Only three trains run per hour, clustered within the first 20 minutes of the hour, she said, and I evidently missed the last of those.The number of New Jersey Transit trains is also constrained by tunnel capacity under the Hudson River. Although a new rail tunnel has been one of the country’s top infrastructure priorities for years, in January the Trump administration cast doubt on the federal government’s commitment to fund half the cost of the first phase of the project, estimated at $11 billion. (New York and New Jersey have pledged to pay the rest.)Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.Inspectors general at cabinet agencies are kept separate to preserve their independence. Paul Light, a New York University professor and specialist on the offices, recalled that President Ronald Reagan fired all of the inspectors general but was forced by Congress to rehire some of them. “They have protections in statutes against arbitrary dismissal,” he said.After Mr. Trump’s tweet, Mr. Horowitz, the inspector general, received support from Republicans, including Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee that confirmed him.“I have complete confidence in him and hope he is given the time, the resources and the independence to complete his work,” said Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight Committee.Several Republicans expressed dismay at the president’s continued campaign against Mr. Sessions. “It’s kind of mind-boggling that he would call out his own attorney general,” former Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah said on Fox News.Representative Peter T. King of New York, also on Fox, expressed sympathy with Mr. Trump’s desire for a second investigation run by Mr. Sessions, but added that the president should not berate him. “Jeff Sessions is loyal to the president and he’s one of the first to support him, and he’s often in very difficult positions and I think he’s trying to reconcile as best as he can,” he said.Michael W. McConnell, a former appellate judge now at Stanford Law School, said a president has every right to direct his attorney general.“What raises eyebrows is the form and tone of the tweet, which appears to be a commentary on the attorney general’s decisions rather than an exercise of presidential supervisory authority,” he said. “Mr. Trump is the president. If he wants something done differently, he should order that it be done differently, with serious reflection, through proper channels and in the proper form.”Jamil Jaffer, a law professor at George Mason University and former associate White House counsel under President George W. Bush, said social media was not the best way to direct action by an attorney general. “The president has a lot of tools that are a lot more effective than putting the A.G. on blast on Twitter,” he said.But Mr. Trump got support from other quarters. Representative Lee Zeldin of New York and a dozen other Republicans sent a letter to Mr. Sessions on Wednesday urging him to appoint a special counsel to investigate the handling of Mrs. Clinton’s case and the FISA warrant targeting Mr. Page.The Rev. Jerry Falwell Jr., the president of Liberty University, suggested that Mr. Sessions had never really supported Mr. Trump in the first place.“@USAGSessions must be part of the Bush/Romney/McCain Republican Establishment,” he wrote on Twitter. “He probably supported @realDonaldTrump early in campaign to hide who he really is. Or he could just be a coward.”Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.“I’ve long felt that if Trump didn’t do well, it would be because of organizational issues,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn’t been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere.”Mr. Elson said Mr. Trump acted more like the typical entrepreneur than an experienced manager. “A problem with entrepreneurs is that people get tired of it and they move on,” he said. “People just get worn out. At some point you need a real manager. A lot of entrepreneurs sell their businesses when they reach a certain size and they realize they can’t manage them.”Would naming Mr. Cohn as chief of staff ameliorate the problem? Despite disenchantment with Mr. Kelly and his handling of the Porter situation, no one I interviewed thinks Mr. Cohn could fundamentally change the dynamic in the Trump White House any more than Mr. Kelly has.Mr. Cohn is now basking in the afterglow of the tax legislation, which seems to be growing in popularity with the public. His supporters point to the first-rate team he assembled at the National Economic Council as evidence that he — perhaps alone among top White House officials — could attract and retain talent. He enjoys good relations with Congress.But if Mr. Cohn became Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, he would have to sublimate his own beliefs to the president’s agenda. As one former White House official told me, “He can’t pull another Charlottesville,” referring to Mr. Cohn’s efforts last summer to publicly distance himself from the president’s racially charged comments while still working for him.Thanks to that incident, Mr. Cohn has already fallen from favor once, and his current rehabilitation may not last. People like Mr. Trump “have friends for a day,” Mr. Elson said. “That’s another quality of the entrepreneur. Like it or not, it’s part of what makes them successful.”While Mr. Cohn has influential supporters at the White House, talk of his possible elevation has prompted plenty of opposition, too, especially from representatives of Mr. Trump’s populist base. Mr. Cohn is, after all, a longtime Manhattan Democrat.A White House spokesman declined to comment on behalf of Mr. Cohn.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”____10. Finally, as the hit show “Fixer Upper” ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.On the late-night shows, Jimmy Fallon said he didn’t have high hopes for President Trump’s trip to Peru for the Summit of the Americas next week: “When he saw it on his schedule, Trump was like, ‘Wait, there’s more than one America? What is this?’”On Monday night, Mr. Fallon will have a co-host for the first time: The rapper Cardi B, who just released her first album, “Invasion of Privacy.”Have a great weekend.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.WASHINGTON — Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director who was fired late Friday, kept contemporaneous memos about his interactions with President Trump and his conversations with the former director James B. Comey, a person close to Mr. McCabe said on Saturday.The memos could bolster the account of Mr. Comey, whose own memos and testimony describe repeated requests by Mr. Trump to clear his name. Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump also asked him to shut down a criminal investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Both matters are under investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is considering whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.Mr. McCabe’s memos were left at the F.B.I., which means that Mr. Mueller’s investigators have access to them as they work to corroborate Mr. Comey’s account. Mr. Trump has denied pressuring Mr. Comey to end the Flynn investigation. Mr. Comey was fired last spring, and the revelation of his conversations with Mr. Trump helped lead to the special counsel’s appointment.Mr. McCabe is known to have had at least three meetings with the president. In one, he asked Mr. McCabe how he had voted in the presidential election. In each, he asked about Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill, who ran a failed campaign as a Democrat for the Virginia State Senate. Mr. McCabe has identified as a lifelong Republican but did not vote in the 2016 presidential race.The existence of his memos was first reported by The Associated Press.Mr. McCabe was fired less than two days before his retirement. Attorney General Jeff Sessions cited what he said was a lack of candor by Mr. McCabe in interviews with internal investigators. His firing had been recommended by career disciplinary officials at the F.B.I.Mr. McCabe immediately declared that his firing was part of a Trump administration effort to discredit him and damage the special counsel’s investigation. In an interview, he said he had not made false statements. “This is part of an effort to discredit me as a witness,” he said.He was among the first F.B.I. officials to scrutinize possible Trump campaign ties to Russia. Mr. Trump has taunted Mr. McCabe both publicly and privately, and Republican allies of the president have cast Mr. McCabe as the center of a “deep state” effort to undermine the Trump presidency.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.Inspectors general at cabinet agencies are kept separate to preserve their independence. Paul Light, a New York University professor and specialist on the offices, recalled that President Ronald Reagan fired all of the inspectors general but was forced by Congress to rehire some of them. “They have protections in statutes against arbitrary dismissal,” he said.After Mr. Trump’s tweet, Mr. Horowitz, the inspector general, received support from Republicans, including Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee that confirmed him.“I have complete confidence in him and hope he is given the time, the resources and the independence to complete his work,” said Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight Committee.Several Republicans expressed dismay at the president’s continued campaign against Mr. Sessions. “It’s kind of mind-boggling that he would call out his own attorney general,” former Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah said on Fox News.Representative Peter T. King of New York, also on Fox, expressed sympathy with Mr. Trump’s desire for a second investigation run by Mr. Sessions, but added that the president should not berate him. “Jeff Sessions is loyal to the president and he’s one of the first to support him, and he’s often in very difficult positions and I think he’s trying to reconcile as best as he can,” he said.Michael W. McConnell, a former appellate judge now at Stanford Law School, said a president has every right to direct his attorney general.“What raises eyebrows is the form and tone of the tweet, which appears to be a commentary on the attorney general’s decisions rather than an exercise of presidential supervisory authority,” he said. “Mr. Trump is the president. If he wants something done differently, he should order that it be done differently, with serious reflection, through proper channels and in the proper form.”Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).Of the 20 finalist cities, Indianapolis has the least traffic congestion and the lowest average home prices, according to the Chamber of Commerce. That’s not to say there aren’t high-end options: A 21,000-square-foot, six-bedroom 1930s-era mansion, currently home to the Indiana University chancellor, is on the market for just under $7 million. (It might be perfect for the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos.)For all its virtues, Indianapolis faces a number of hurdles. While Mr. Stutz told me that Salesforce had found an abundance of homegrown tech talent there, Amazon knows it will need to import many of the high-level software engineers and employees who will form the core of the work force at its second headquarters. That may be a challenge.Unlike Amazon’s home state of Washington, Indiana reliably votes Republican in presidential elections, though it went for Barack Obama over John McCain in 2008. Donald J. Trump carried the state overwhelmingly in 2016, and Mike Pence, an Indiana native and self-described religious conservative, served as Indiana’s governor before becoming Mr. Trump’s vice president.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.Inspectors general at cabinet agencies are kept separate to preserve their independence. Paul Light, a New York University professor and specialist on the offices, recalled that President Ronald Reagan fired all of the inspectors general but was forced by Congress to rehire some of them. “They have protections in statutes against arbitrary dismissal,” he said.After Mr. Trump’s tweet, Mr. Horowitz, the inspector general, received support from Republicans, including Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee that confirmed him.“I have complete confidence in him and hope he is given the time, the resources and the independence to complete his work,” said Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight Committee.Several Republicans expressed dismay at the president’s continued campaign against Mr. Sessions. “It’s kind of mind-boggling that he would call out his own attorney general,” former Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah said on Fox News.Representative Peter T. King of New York, also on Fox, expressed sympathy with Mr. Trump’s desire for a second investigation run by Mr. Sessions, but added that the president should not berate him. “Jeff Sessions is loyal to the president and he’s one of the first to support him, and he’s often in very difficult positions and I think he’s trying to reconcile as best as he can,” he said.Michael W. McConnell, a former appellate judge now at Stanford Law School, said a president has every right to direct his attorney general.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.Still, there are “a few” undervalued opportunities, Mr. Dodson said. He cited the health care sector: The biotech concern Gilead Sciences and the generic-drug maker Perrigo are two of his fund’s largest holdings. The toymaker Mattel “is on the bargain table,” he said. And even in technology, his fund has a large position in Qualcomm, currently fighting a takeover bid by the rival chip-maker Broadcom. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”____10. Finally, as the hit show “Fixer Upper” ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.On the late-night shows, Jimmy Fallon said he didn’t have high hopes for President Trump’s trip to Peru for the Summit of the Americas next week: “When he saw it on his schedule, Trump was like, ‘Wait, there’s more than one America? What is this?’”WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. “We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are — or have been — what makes us a people.”WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”Mr. Sessions’s standing with Mr. Trump has eroded in his year as attorney general. The president criticized his Senate confirmation performance and his decision to remove himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, even musing that he would not have hired Mr. Sessions had he anticipated the recusal. He berated him so severely over Mr. Mueller’s appointment that Mr. Sessions offered his resignation.That fraught relationship has impaired Mr. Sessions’s ability to act as a bulwark between his lawyers and politics, former career prosecutors said.“Sessions’s silence is evidence that Trump’s public neutering of anyone close to this investigation is working,” said Paul Pelletier, a Democratic candidate for Congress in Virginia who was a federal prosecutor for nearly three decades. “It is deleterious to the whole criminal justice process.”Mr. Pelletier said that although the attorneys general with whom he worked, from Edwin Meese III to Eric H. Holder Jr., clashed with their staff, they gave prosecutors and the institution itself unwavering public support. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”In the end, Mr. Sessions still drafted a resignation letter later that night and sent it to the White House. Mr. Priebus then went to work on Mr. Trump, arguing that he should not accept it. The president reluctantly agreed and Mr. Sessions stayed.But that did not end the danger to the attorney general. A couple months later, Mr. Trump took his anger with Mr. Sessions public by telling The New York Times in an interview that he would not have appointed him attorney general had he known that he would recuse himself.Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump once again demanded Mr. Sessions’s resignation. Citing a White House insider, Mr. Whipple’s book says the president told Mr. Priebus to act on his order. “Don’t try to slow me down like you always do,” Mr. Trump told him. “Get the resignation of Jeff Sessions.”Mr. Priebus, however, did try to slow him down and argued that pushing out Mr. Sessions would result in the resignations of the second- and third-ranking Justice Department officials too. “If I get this resignation, you are in for a spiral of calamity that makes Comey look like a picnic,” Mr. Priebus warned him. Again, Mr. Trump backed down.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.As you might imagine, T’Challa experienced a bit of culture shock. He bungled questions about credit-card debt and parenting, before buzzing in on a clue about law enforcement: “The policeman says there’s been some robberies in your neighborhood and asks if you have any information.” Boseman responded, “What is, not only do I tell this man what I know, but I also assist him in tracking down the offender. After all, our ministers of law enforcement are only here to protect us.”Thompson twisted his features into an expression reminiscent of the nauseated face emoji. “I’m thinking you haven’t spent much time in America,” he said.The “Weekend Update” co-anchor Colin Jost also addressed President Trump’s decision to send National Guard troops to the border with Mexico, even though, he pointed out, “reports show that illegal border crossings are at their lowest level since 1971.” He continued, “It’s all part of Trump’s philosophy: ‘If it ain’t broke, I’ll break it.”A robotic Mark Zuckerberg, played by Alex Moffat, stopped by “Weekend Update” to address the criticism he has received since the Cambridge Analytica data leak. “Hi there, Colin,” he greeted Jost, before instructing himself to “begin eye contact.”“Unlike my facial expression, Facebook is going to change,” Moffat promised, in an interview punctuated by high-pitched giggles and stiff attempts at dabbing.He concluded with a disingenuous mea culpa:“My point is, sure, maybe Facebook sold out our democracy to Russian troll farms. My bad? But, on the other hand: Farmville. To be honest, I feel great about Facebook’s future. I sleep easy at night, upside down in my pressurized sleep egg. And sure, I still have all your photos, your memories, your unspoken thoughts and fears. But, America, look at me in my shark eyes when I say this — that, on behalf of everyone on Facebook, I’m sorry. On opposite day!”What started out as a sketch about three girlfriends at Disneyland found its punch line in the R&B singer R. Kelly — who has been the subject for many years of disturbing accusations. Staring into a “magic” mirror that had shown her friends their “personal Disney princesses,” Jones was surprised to find the leather-clad musician staring back at her, then gyrating with a bag of popcorn held over his crotch. “What are you up to R. Kelly? Why is R. Kelly in there?” she demanded. “The last place he needs to be is Disneyland!”The rapper Cardi B, who released her debut album, “Invasion of Privacy,” on Friday, played a medley of her biggest hits to date, “Bodak Yellow” and “Bartier Cardi,” in her first performance of the night. Clad in white and black fur, sporting close-cropped green hair, and flanked by four backup dancers, she delivered a typically energetic (and heavily bleeped) performance.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.WASHINGTON — President Trump asked the man he was considering as temporary F.B.I. director how he had voted in the 2016 presidential election, according to a person familiar with the discussion.The question was directed to Andrew G. McCabe, the bureau’s deputy director. Mr. Trump abruptly fired the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, in May, and at the time, the president openly discussed the need for any successor to be “loyal,” according to an adviser to the president.The week that Mr. Comey was fired, Mr. McCabe met with Mr. Trump a handful of times, a person familiar with the meetings said.It was at one of those meetings that Mr. Trump asked Mr. McCabe whom he had voted for, another person familiar with the encounters said. Mr. McCabe said he had not voted. The exchange was first reported by The Washington Post.The question was unusually and overtly political for an interview related to a position in the Justice Department, which is supposed to maintain its independence from politics.At their final meeting, Mr. Trump offered Mr. McCabe the job and told him he planned to give him the role of acting director. The president also said that he planned to make an appearance that week at F.B.I. Headquarters to bolster morale. Mr. McCabe told Mr. Trump that it would be a risky move after firing a well-respected director, so the president scuttled the trip, citing scheduling conflicts.For weeks, Mr. Trump and his allies have focused their ire on Mr. McCabe. Mr. McCabe’s wife was a candidate for Virginia State Senate in 2015, and she received donations from the “super PAC” supporting Terry McAuliffe, the state’s governor at the time, who was a longtime ally of Hillary Clinton’s.A White House official confirmed Tuesday night that Mr. Trump had asked the question, saying it was in the context of first asking about Mr. McCabe’s family, which led to a discussion about Mr. McAuliffe and then to how Mr. McCabe had voted. The F.B.I. declined to comment.Mr. Trump has also assailed the independence of the F.B.I., and has described its reputation as being “in Tatters,” a stunning broadside from a sitting president against a law enforcement agency he oversees. Mr. Comey has testified publicly and under oath that Mr. Trump asked for his loyalty in one of their meetings. Mr. Trump has denied the allegation.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).Of the 20 finalist cities, Indianapolis has the least traffic congestion and the lowest average home prices, according to the Chamber of Commerce. That’s not to say there aren’t high-end options: A 21,000-square-foot, six-bedroom 1930s-era mansion, currently home to the Indiana University chancellor, is on the market for just under $7 million. (It might be perfect for the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos.)For all its virtues, Indianapolis faces a number of hurdles. While Mr. Stutz told me that Salesforce had found an abundance of homegrown tech talent there, Amazon knows it will need to import many of the high-level software engineers and employees who will form the core of the work force at its second headquarters. That may be a challenge.Unlike Amazon’s home state of Washington, Indiana reliably votes Republican in presidential elections, though it went for Barack Obama over John McCain in 2008. Donald J. Trump carried the state overwhelmingly in 2016, and Mike Pence, an Indiana native and self-described religious conservative, served as Indiana’s governor before becoming Mr. Trump’s vice president.A strong streak of social conservatism runs through the state (though not so much in Indianapolis), and this week the state legislature was roiled by a new round in the culture wars as legislators debated whether to pass a hate-crimes bill to protect victims of bias based on race, religion, sex, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation. Indiana is one of only five states without such legislation.Partly as a result of pressure from Salesforce, other companies and the N.C.A.A., Mr. Pence, when he was governor, amended a so-called Religious Freedom Restoration Act in 2015 that had allowed business owners to discriminate against gays and lesbians on the grounds of religious principle.Mr. Huber said the Chamber of Commerce had been a longtime supporter of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights, and was a strong supporter of comprehensive anti-hate-crime legislation. The city has had a comprehensive human rights ordinance in place since 2005, he said.Indianapolis may never emerge as the popular favorite to win, but I wouldn’t count it out.Maureen Krauss, the chamber’s chief economic development officer, who worked on Indianapolis’s proposal, said a team of about 300 people had contributed to the first-round effort, and they worked 43 days straight.“We finished it two days early,” she said. “Amazon is a creative company and a tech company, and that’s the kind of proposal we tried to deliver.”She and Mr. Huber got the good news that Indianapolis was a finalist on Thursday last week, but there was no celebration. “We hunkered down and started on Phase 2,” Mr. Huber said.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”In the end, Mr. Sessions still drafted a resignation letter later that night and sent it to the White House. Mr. Priebus then went to work on Mr. Trump, arguing that he should not accept it. The president reluctantly agreed and Mr. Sessions stayed.But that did not end the danger to the attorney general. A couple months later, Mr. Trump took his anger with Mr. Sessions public by telling The New York Times in an interview that he would not have appointed him attorney general had he known that he would recuse himself.Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump once again demanded Mr. Sessions’s resignation. Citing a White House insider, Mr. Whipple’s book says the president told Mr. Priebus to act on his order. “Don’t try to slow me down like you always do,” Mr. Trump told him. “Get the resignation of Jeff Sessions.”WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”Mr. Sessions’s standing with Mr. Trump has eroded in his year as attorney general. The president criticized his Senate confirmation performance and his decision to remove himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, even musing that he would not have hired Mr. Sessions had he anticipated the recusal. He berated him so severely over Mr. Mueller’s appointment that Mr. Sessions offered his resignation.That fraught relationship has impaired Mr. Sessions’s ability to act as a bulwark between his lawyers and politics, former career prosecutors said.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”____10. Finally, as the hit show “Fixer Upper” ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.On the late-night shows, Jimmy Fallon said he didn’t have high hopes for President Trump’s trip to Peru for the Summit of the Americas next week: “When he saw it on his schedule, Trump was like, ‘Wait, there’s more than one America? What is this?’”On Monday night, Mr. Fallon will have a co-host for the first time: The rapper Cardi B, who just released her first album, “Invasion of Privacy.”Have a great weekend.____WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administration’s justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called “an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congress’s role in passing immigration laws.”The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the state’s chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The next major court fight between California and the Trump administration may involve greenhouse gas emissions.The state has a waiver under the Clean Air Act that allows it to enforce stronger air pollution standards than those set by the federal government.Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has said he is dissatisfied with that state of affairs.“California is not the arbiter of these issues,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg TV last month.On Monday, the agency took steps to challenge California’s waiver. Though the process may take some time, it is likely to produce another clash between the Trump administration and the state that has emerged as its most determined foe. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.State lawmakers also passed the Immigrant Worker Protection Act, which prohibits local business from allowing immigration to gain access to employee records without a court order or subpoena. Mr. Becerra warned that anyone who violated the new law would face a fine of up to $10,000.In the state budget bill, California lawmakers prohibited new contracts for immigration detention in the state and gave the state attorney general the power to monitor all state immigration detention centers.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.Inspectors general at cabinet agencies are kept separate to preserve their independence. Paul Light, a New York University professor and specialist on the offices, recalled that President Ronald Reagan fired all of the inspectors general but was forced by Congress to rehire some of them. “They have protections in statutes against arbitrary dismissal,” he said.After Mr. Trump’s tweet, Mr. Horowitz, the inspector general, received support from Republicans, including Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee that confirmed him.“I have complete confidence in him and hope he is given the time, the resources and the independence to complete his work,” said Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight Committee.Several Republicans expressed dismay at the president’s continued campaign against Mr. Sessions. “It’s kind of mind-boggling that he would call out his own attorney general,” former Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah said on Fox News.Representative Peter T. King of New York, also on Fox, expressed sympathy with Mr. Trump’s desire for a second investigation run by Mr. Sessions, but added that the president should not berate him. “Jeff Sessions is loyal to the president and he’s one of the first to support him, and he’s often in very difficult positions and I think he’s trying to reconcile as best as he can,” he said.Michael W. McConnell, a former appellate judge now at Stanford Law School, said a president has every right to direct his attorney general.“What raises eyebrows is the form and tone of the tweet, which appears to be a commentary on the attorney general’s decisions rather than an exercise of presidential supervisory authority,” he said. “Mr. Trump is the president. If he wants something done differently, he should order that it be done differently, with serious reflection, through proper channels and in the proper form.”Jamil Jaffer, a law professor at George Mason University and former associate White House counsel under President George W. Bush, said social media was not the best way to direct action by an attorney general. “The president has a lot of tools that are a lot more effective than putting the A.G. on blast on Twitter,” he said.But Mr. Trump got support from other quarters. Representative Lee Zeldin of New York and a dozen other Republicans sent a letter to Mr. Sessions on Wednesday urging him to appoint a special counsel to investigate the handling of Mrs. Clinton’s case and the FISA warrant targeting Mr. Page.The Rev. Jerry Falwell Jr., the president of Liberty University, suggested that Mr. Sessions had never really supported Mr. Trump in the first place.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 concertgoers were killed by a gunman using firearms outfitted with bump stocks, public pressure grew to ban them. Justice Department and A.T.F. officials privately stuck by their earlier conclusion that they could not outlaw bump stocks, but with little appetite to tackle gun policy in Congress, Mr. Sessions asked the A.T.F. to review its determination.Agencies periodically scrutinize earlier rulings and change interpretations. What set apart the bump stock evaluation, according to former bureau officials, was Mr. Trump’s overt political pressure.“No disrespect intended, but I’m sure President Trump has no idea what exactly the authority is for A.T.F. or the D.O.J. to ban these things,” said Bradley A. Buckles, who was the head of the bureau from 1999 to 2004. “In all honesty, he doesn’t know what his authority is in that regard.”And in altering its 2010 interpretation made under former President Barack Obama, the bureau could be subject to lawsuits that tie up a bump stock ban in the courts.“The Justice Department and the A.T.F. are going to get sued, and Trump is going to get flak,” said Josh Blackman, a professor at South Texas College of Law in Houston. “Obama was correct in his interpretation of the statute. If you want to ban bump stocks, it has to be done through Congress.”The apparent reversal on bump stocks appears to be more political than legal, said Rick Vasquez, a former A.T.F. official who supervised the bureau’s prior determination on bump stocks.“They’re basically playing games with the regulations and the law right now just to make a political statement,” he said.Other presidents have also influenced Justice Department rule making to help their preferred policies come into fruition, then watched as those rules became fodder for lawsuits. Under Mr. Obama, the Justice Department created the legal underpinnings to protect undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children after Congress failed to address the issue. That program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, was the subject of multiple lawsuits.If bump stock bans are approved, as expected, questions remain on how the rule will be enforced, including whether it will apply to purchases before a ban would be instituted.On Monday, Mr. Trump continued to publicly press for a ban. “Bump Stocks,” he tweeted, “will soon be out.”House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.)He said the credit was “more important for other players who are much further away from the 200,000 United States sales mark.”In theory, the problem shouldn’t be difficult for Congress to fix. One approach would be to lift the 200,000 vehicle cap and continue the credit indefinitely, a move that would most likely be welcomed by makers and consumers of electric vehicles and has the support of green energy lobbying groups. But the price tag for the government could become prohibitive if electric car sales surge.Or Congress could phase out the incentives beginning at a target date that would apply to all manufacturers, or after total industry sales hit a level that suggests a move to electric vehicles is sustainable. Depending on the time or level of sales chosen, that could address concerns about the impact of the tax credit on the deficit.Tesla and G.M. have not proposed a specific fix.Many countries have far more robust subsidies for electric cars than the United States, including most of Europe. Norway has by far the highest percentage of electric car ownership in the world (about one-third of the vehicles sold there last year were electric or hybrid), along with the most lavish subsidies, which include sharply reduced sales taxes as well as free parking and use of uncongested bus lanes. The country has set a goal of zero auto emissions by 2025.While no one expects the United States to go to such an extreme, revising the electric vehicle tax credit and bolstering other incentives for renewable energy could be a rare source of bipartisan agreement. When it comes to jobs, a top priority for both Congress and the Trump administration, the Department of Energy reported that in 2016, 3.38 million Americans were employed in the clean energy sector, 10 percent more than the 2.99 million employed in fossil fuels.How the renewable energy subsidies managed to survive to be part of the tax law remains a subject of debate, but nearly every explanation points in part to Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa, the powerful Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee and a staunch supporter of renewable energy, especially wind. Iowa is a leader in wind power, which generates 36 percent of the state’s electricity. The wind power industry employs 9,000 people in the state, according to the Iowa Wind Energy Association. (Senator Grassley did not respond to requests for comment.)Trying to tamper with the renewable energy subsidies and the electric vehicle credit, as the House version of the tax bill did, “was asking for trouble,” said Dean Zerbe, former tax counsel for the Senate Finance Committee and a national managing director at Alliantgroup, which specializes in tax credits and incentives. “Certain senators wouldn’t budge on that.”With funding for the government scheduled to expire on Jan. 19, and with such a narrow Republican majority in the Senate, Republicans and Democrats in Congress have an incentive to find some common ground, which might include revising the electric vehicle credit. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.Another reason to know your nenes is that, although rare in the wild, they often come up in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in Times crosswords 295 times since 1944.It appeared in the puzzle on March 12 with the clue “Hawaiian goose.” The word might also appear in easy puzzles with the clue “Hawaiian state bird” or “Hawaiian honker.”Later in the week, as the crosswords become harder, it might be referred to as “Aloha State bird,” “Endangered state bird,” “Lava geese,” “Bird so-called from its call” or “Gray-brown goose.”You can find out about the nene and other birds that appear regularly in our Crossword Aviary.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.In particular, Republicans pointed to Andrew Weissmann, who served as F.B.I. general counsel under Mr. Mueller. Mr. Weissmann is a career prosecutor but, while in private law practice, donated thousands of dollars toward President Barack Obama’s election effort.In his Sunday morning Twitter blasts, Mr. Trump also renewed his attacks on James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, and Andrew G. McCabe, his former deputy, both of whom, like Mr. Mueller, are longtime Republicans. Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey last May, at first attributing the decision to the F.B.I. director’s handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server but later telling an interviewer that he had the Russia investigation in mind when he made the decision.Mr. Sessions, under intense public pressure from Mr. Trump, fired Mr. McCabe on Friday after an inspector general found that he had not been forthcoming about authorizing F.B.I. officials to provide information about the Clinton inquiry in 2016 to a reporter.“Wow, watch Comey lie under oath to Senator G when asked ‘have you ever been an anonymous source...or known someone else to be an anonymous source...?’” Mr. Trump wrote. “He said strongly ‘never, no.’ He lied as shown clearly on @foxandfriends.”Mr. Trump went on to dismiss reports that Mr. McCabe kept detailed memos of his time as deputy F.B.I. director, just as Mr. Comey did. Mr. McCabe left those memos with the F.B.I., which means Mr. Mueller’s team has access to them.“Spent very little time with Andrew McCabe, but he never took notes when he was with me,” Mr. Trump wrote. “I don’t believe he made memos except to help his own agenda, probably at a later date. Same with lying James Comey. Can we call them Fake Memos?”Michael R. Bromwich, Mr. McCabe’s lawyer, fired back by accusing the president of corrupting the law enforcement system. “We will not be responding to each childish, defamatory, disgusting & false tweet by the President,” he wrote on Twitter. “The whole truth will come out in due course. But the tweets confirm that he has corrupted the entire process that led to Mr. McCabe’s termination and has rendered it illegitimate.”In suggesting that Mr. Comey lied under oath to Congress, Mr. Trump appeared to refer to a comment by Mr. McCabe that the former director had authorized the news media interaction at the heart of the complaint against him. The president’s Republican allies picked up the point on Sunday and pressed for appointment of a prosecutor to look at the origin of the Russia investigation.“So we know that McCabe has lied” because the inspector general concluded he had not been fully candid, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority leader, said on Fox News. “Now he’s saying about Comey — Comey may have lied as well. So I don’t think this is the end of it. But that’s why we need a second special counsel.”Other Republicans, however, suggested that the Trump administration was going too far. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida criticized the decision to fire Mr. McCabe on a Friday night shortly before his retirement took effect, jeopardizing his pension.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.But Mr. Trump passed over Mr. Cohn for the post of Federal Reserve chairman. In late December Mr. Cohn told the news site Axios he would still be in the administration three months hence. Earlier this month the time frame seemed to have shrunk. Asked how long he would stay at the White House, Mr. Cohn said only, “I’m here today and I’m here next week.”Professor Smith of N.Y.U. said he hoped Mr. Cohn would leave soon “because his reputation will be mangled if he stays.”“He delivered the tax legislation,” he said. “Whether you agree with it or not, he executed. That’s his skill. And he stood up to the president after Charlottesville. People respect that. I think he could leave now with his reputation intact.”Alone among the prominent Goldman alumni in the administration, Mr. Mnuchin seems likely to stay. “He’s been a good and loyal employee,” Professor Smith said. “But he’s more of a Hollywood person now. His reputation in the professional financial sector may not matter that much to him.”Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci aside, “any so-called exodus may be a function of what they achieved,” Mr. Gingrich said of the Goldman veterans.“There’s nothing on the agenda this year that’s nearly as exciting as reshaping the tax code,” he said. “They worked very hard and tried to do things that were effective. In that sense they were a real asset.”At the same time, Mr. Gingrich contended that Mr. Trump — and not his advisers — deserved the lion’s share of credit for the tax bill, for building confidence in the economy, and for not launching a trade war.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.Inspectors general at cabinet agencies are kept separate to preserve their independence. Paul Light, a New York University professor and specialist on the offices, recalled that President Ronald Reagan fired all of the inspectors general but was forced by Congress to rehire some of them. “They have protections in statutes against arbitrary dismissal,” he said.After Mr. Trump’s tweet, Mr. Horowitz, the inspector general, received support from Republicans, including Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee that confirmed him.“I have complete confidence in him and hope he is given the time, the resources and the independence to complete his work,” said Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight Committee.Several Republicans expressed dismay at the president’s continued campaign against Mr. Sessions. “It’s kind of mind-boggling that he would call out his own attorney general,” former Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah said on Fox News.Representative Peter T. King of New York, also on Fox, expressed sympathy with Mr. Trump’s desire for a second investigation run by Mr. Sessions, but added that the president should not berate him. “Jeff Sessions is loyal to the president and he’s one of the first to support him, and he’s often in very difficult positions and I think he’s trying to reconcile as best as he can,” he said.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.Labor discipline was another matter. In the farming and domestic work that people had been doing for generations, “intense activity alternated with slack times,” whereas factory production was repetitive and continuous, requiring “coordinated activity by dozens or hundreds of workers, who were expected to start and stop work at the same time, day after day.”Now that factory work and stable, blue-collar jobs are such potent sources of nostalgia, it can be hard to recall how truly disruptive the manufacturing age was. Freeman does a superb job of reminding us. For an agrarian society like England, the factory generated a wistfulness for the bucolic agricultural past. The “dark Satanic Mills” bemoaned by William Blake were powered by steam and coal-fired boilers that belched smoke and soot. Seventy-hour work weeks were common. Male workers chafed at the constant supervision on the factory floor, and owners preferred not to employ men, anyway. “Today, in the United States, factories are associated with masculinity,” Freeman writes, “but in their early days they were spaces largely occupied by women and children.”Some of the details recounted here are familiar, though still appalling. In the 19th century, textile mills in New England — which were supposed to be gentler than the cruel depredations of the Old World — employed children as young as 4. Factory workers in Britain overwhelmed urban areas, crowding together in squalor. A Manchester official described streets “so covered with refuse and excrementitious matter as to be almost impassable from depth of mud, and intolerable from stench.”As Freeman shows, what started inauspiciously became an engine for material abundance and, in the cases of the United States and the Soviet Union, a source of national pride. Factories, especially steel mills, became the behemoths of the book’s title, consolidations of equipment and labor on a massive scale. Freeman suggests the awe that these enormous structures must have inspired, describing how dignitaries attending the opening of a steel mill in 19th-century Maryland “rode in decorated gondola cars along the route iron ore would take,” ascending to a height of eight stories. Unlike the textile worker, who brought to mind wan images of a young woman or “a sickly child,” steelworkers were often portrayed “as intensely masculine, often bare-chested, with muscles rippling.”With size and strength came strife too, as steel mills became sites for a bitter class war. Start-up costs were high, so a few big firms dominated the industry. Unions organized in response. Steel magnates like Andrew Carnegie resented any incursions on their freedom to set wages and working conditions at will; they wanted the right to squeeze labor to maintain profitability. The Homestead strike of 1892 turned into a literal conflagration, as steelworkers in Pennsylvania set the Monongahela River on fire.Freeman handles all of this material with the seriousness it deserves. If “Behemoth” can feel a little slow-going at times, that’s partly because of the knottiness of the history Freeman lays out, as well as his honorable refusal to resort to simplistic notions of grand progress or portentous doom.He shows how Henry Ford’s assembly-line innovations rendered his company both dominant and vulnerable: Switching to a new product in 1927 from the Model T required a wholesale overhaul of equipment and processes, costing Ford today’s equivalent of a cool $3.5 billion. Gigant industrialism in the Soviet Union and the Eastern bloc showed its own seams and contradictions; for all the talk of a workers’ paradise, the Soviets eventually criminalized absenteeism, tardiness and “quitting without permission,” controlling labor in ways that would have made the most ruthless capitalist proud.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”In the end, Mr. Sessions still drafted a resignation letter later that night and sent it to the White House. Mr. Priebus then went to work on Mr. Trump, arguing that he should not accept it. The president reluctantly agreed and Mr. Sessions stayed.But that did not end the danger to the attorney general. A couple months later, Mr. Trump took his anger with Mr. Sessions public by telling The New York Times in an interview that he would not have appointed him attorney general had he known that he would recuse himself.Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump once again demanded Mr. Sessions’s resignation. Citing a White House insider, Mr. Whipple’s book says the president told Mr. Priebus to act on his order. “Don’t try to slow me down like you always do,” Mr. Trump told him. “Get the resignation of Jeff Sessions.”Mr. Priebus, however, did try to slow him down and argued that pushing out Mr. Sessions would result in the resignations of the second- and third-ranking Justice Department officials too. “If I get this resignation, you are in for a spiral of calamity that makes Comey look like a picnic,” Mr. Priebus warned him. Again, Mr. Trump backed down.But in other ways he did not. Mr. Priebus said he and other aides — including Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter; Jared Kushner, his son-in-law; and Hope Hicks, his communications director — regularly tried to convince Mr. Trump that his random, often incendiary Twitter messages were self-destructive.“I told him, ‘Some of it’s not helpful, it causes distraction. We can get thrown off our message by tweeting things that aren’t the issues of the day,’” he said. But he did not get through. “Everybody tried at different times to cool down the Twitter habit — but no one could do it. Not me, Jared, Ivanka, Hope.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t ended(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.WASHINGTON — President Trump asked the man he was considering as temporary F.B.I. director how he had voted in the 2016 presidential election, according to a person familiar with the discussion.The question was directed to Andrew G. McCabe, the bureau’s deputy director. Mr. Trump abruptly fired the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, in May, and at the time, the president openly discussed the need for any successor to be “loyal,” according to an adviser to the president.The week that Mr. Comey was fired, Mr. McCabe met with Mr. Trump a handful of times, a person familiar with the meetings said.It was at one of those meetings that Mr. Trump asked Mr. McCabe whom he had voted for, another person familiar with the encounters said. Mr. McCabe said he had not voted. The exchange was first reported by The Washington Post.The question was unusually and overtly political for an interview related to a position in the Justice Department, which is supposed to maintain its independence from politics.At their final meeting, Mr. Trump offered Mr. McCabe the job and told him he planned to give him the role of acting director. The president also said that he planned to make an appearance that week at F.B.I. Headquarters to bolster morale. Mr. McCabe told Mr. Trump that it would be a risky move after firing a well-respected director, so the president scuttled the trip, citing scheduling conflicts.For weeks, Mr. Trump and his allies have focused their ire on Mr. McCabe. Mr. McCabe’s wife was a candidate for Virginia State Senate in 2015, and she received donations from the “super PAC” supporting Terry McAuliffe, the state’s governor at the time, who was a longtime ally of Hillary Clinton’s.A White House official confirmed Tuesday night that Mr. Trump had asked the question, saying it was in the context of first asking about Mr. McCabe’s family, which led to a discussion about Mr. McAuliffe and then to how Mr. McCabe had voted. The F.B.I. declined to comment.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.Once I reached the station, I learned that the next New Jersey Transit train wouldn’t arrive for 50 minutes. When I went to the enclosed (and presumably heated) waiting area, it was empty, and entry was barred by a guard at the door.A Port Authority official said the area was closed because of an unattended bag. Some time after I left, it reopened when a police dog certified in bomb detection determined the bag was harmless. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know: (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barWASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 concertgoers were killed by a gunman using firearms outfitted with bump stocks, public pressure grew to ban them. Justice Department and A.T.F. officials privately stuck by their earlier conclusion that they could not outlaw bump stocks, but with little appetite to tackle gun policy in Congress, Mr. Sessions asked the A.T.F. to review its determination.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.Still, there are “a few” undervalued opportunities, Mr. Dodson said. He cited the health care sector: The biotech concern Gilead Sciences and the generic-drug maker Perrigo are two of his fund’s largest holdings. The toymaker Mattel “is on the bargain table,” he said. And even in technology, his fund has a large position in Qualcomm, currently fighting a takeover bid by the rival chip-maker Broadcom.If so much is indeed overvalued, then this year’s market could well reward discerning active managers. “I worry about the index funds,” Mr. Dodson said. “They’re getting close to 25 percent in technology, given the high valuations and market caps. If there’s a reversal, it’s going to hit the index funds hard. This may finally be the year that active managers outperform.”Mr. Stack agreed. “Active management isn’t about beating the market but about achieving market gains within a defined acceptance of risk,” he said. “There are selective opportunities, but you have to dig to find them. None are true bargains anymore.”He recently bought shares in the diversified industrial manufacturer Ingersoll Rand and is moving his portfolio toward more defensive positions in consumer staples, energy and materials. “I’d rather be early with portfolio defenses and leave some profits on the table than go into a bear market fully exposed,” he said.Mr. Stack said that in examining bull markets over the past 50 years, he had found that both the technology and energy sectors outperformed in the late stages of a bull market. He said investors “should have some portion of their portfolio in the materials sector, notably energy, which had been so out of favor” until mid-2017.In my outlook column last year, Damien Courvalin, head of energy research for Goldman Sachs’s Global Investment Research commodities team, was uncannily accurate in forecasting that oil prices would recover in 2017 and stabilize at $55 to $60 per barrel. (West Texas intermediate crude oil futures ended the year at $60.42.) So I asked him what his team was predicting this year.“From a total-return perspective, it’s quite compelling to be invested in commodities,” he said — even though he doesn’t see oil prices rising much above current levels by year’s end. That’s because, thanks to the shale oil revolution, producers outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries can easily ramp up production when prices are $60 to $65. But commodities investors can still make a profit, he said, by betting on stable to rising prices in the futures market.Like Mr. Stack, Mr. Courvalin noted that commodities and energy typically do well in the late stages of an economic expansion. Non-energy commodities may do even better, since they have no equivalent to shale and mining companies can’t increase production quickly in response to rising prices. In the mining sector, “margins are improving, orders are picking up, and we’re seeing new investment,” he said.It may seem a paradox that investors’ worries about the coming year are mounting even as the economic outlook seems so bright. “Investors are struggling with this market because the skies are blue,” Mr. Stack said. “It’s rare when you have an investing climate like this one, where it’s all but impossible to find something to worry about, either domestically or globally.”With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.As you might imagine, T’Challa experienced a bit of culture shock. He bungled questions about credit-card debt and parenting, before buzzing in on a clue about law enforcement: “The policeman says there’s been some robberies in your neighborhood and asks if you have any information.” Boseman responded, “What is, not only do I tell this man what I know, but I also assist him in tracking down the offender. After all, our ministers of law enforcement are only here to protect us.”Thompson twisted his features into an expression reminiscent of the nauseated face emoji. “I’m thinking you haven’t spent much time in America,” he said.The “Weekend Update” co-anchor Colin Jost also addressed President Trump’s decision to send National Guard troops to the border with Mexico, even though, he pointed out, “reports show that illegal border crossings are at their lowest level since 1971.” He continued, “It’s all part of Trump’s philosophy: ‘If it ain’t broke, I’ll break it.”A robotic Mark Zuckerberg, played by Alex Moffat, stopped by “Weekend Update” to address the criticism he has received since the Cambridge Analytica data leak. “Hi there, Colin,” he greeted Jost, before instructing himself to “begin eye contact.”“Unlike my facial expression, Facebook is going to change,” Moffat promised, in an interview punctuated by high-pitched giggles and stiff attempts at dabbing.He concluded with a disingenuous mea culpa:“My point is, sure, maybe Facebook sold out our democracy to Russian troll farms. My bad? But, on the other hand: Farmville. To be honest, I feel great about Facebook’s future. I sleep easy at night, upside down in my pressurized sleep egg. And sure, I still have all your photos, your memories, your unspoken thoughts and fears. But, America, look at me in my shark eyes when I say this — that, on behalf of everyone on Facebook, I’m sorry. On opposite day!”What started out as a sketch about three girlfriends at Disneyland found its punch line in the R&B singer R. Kelly — who has been the subject for many years of disturbing accusations. Staring into a “magic” mirror that had shown her friends their “personal Disney princesses,” Jones was surprised to find the leather-clad musician staring back at her, then gyrating with a bag of popcorn held over his crotch. “What are you up to R. Kelly? Why is R. Kelly in there?” she demanded. “The last place he needs to be is Disneyland!”The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.Labor discipline was another matter. In the farming and domestic work that people had been doing for generations, “intense activity alternated with slack times,” whereas factory production was repetitive and continuous, requiring “coordinated activity by dozens or hundreds of workers, who were expected to start and stop work at the same time, day after day.”WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.“I’ve long felt that if Trump didn’t do well, it would be because of organizational issues,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn’t been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere.”Mr. Elson said Mr. Trump acted more like the typical entrepreneur than an experienced manager. “A problem with entrepreneurs is that people get tired of it and they move on,” he said. “People just get worn out. At some point you need a real manager. A lot of entrepreneurs sell their businesses when they reach a certain size and they realize they can’t manage them.”Would naming Mr. Cohn as chief of staff ameliorate the problem? Despite disenchantment with Mr. Kelly and his handling of the Porter situation, no one I interviewed thinks Mr. Cohn could fundamentally change the dynamic in the Trump White House any more than Mr. Kelly has.Mr. Cohn is now basking in the afterglow of the tax legislation, which seems to be growing in popularity with the public. His supporters point to the first-rate team he assembled at the National Economic Council as evidence that he — perhaps alone among top White House officials — could attract and retain talent. He enjoys good relations with Congress.But if Mr. Cohn became Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, he would have to sublimate his own beliefs to the president’s agenda. As one former White House official told me, “He can’t pull another Charlottesville,” referring to Mr. Cohn’s efforts last summer to publicly distance himself from the president’s racially charged comments while still working for him.Thanks to that incident, Mr. Cohn has already fallen from favor once, and his current rehabilitation may not last. People like Mr. Trump “have friends for a day,” Mr. Elson said. “That’s another quality of the entrepreneur. Like it or not, it’s part of what makes them successful.”While Mr. Cohn has influential supporters at the White House, talk of his possible elevation has prompted plenty of opposition, too, especially from representatives of Mr. Trump’s populist base. Mr. Cohn is, after all, a longtime Manhattan Democrat.A White House spokesman declined to comment on behalf of Mr. Cohn.In any event, Mr. Trump may be oblivious to the staff turnover and widespread vacancies in the executive branch, and indifferent to calls to replace Mr. Kelly.“I don’t think Trump thinks much about management philosophy,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “He ran for president as a lark, and look at him now. For him it’s all upside.”WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.WASHINGTON — Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director who was fired late Friday, kept contemporaneous memos about his interactions with President Trump and his conversations with the former director James B. Comey, a person close to Mr. McCabe said on Saturday.The memos could bolster the account of Mr. Comey, whose own memos and testimony describe repeated requests by Mr. Trump to clear his name. Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump also asked him to shut down a criminal investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Both matters are under investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is considering whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.Mr. McCabe’s memos were left at the F.B.I., which means that Mr. Mueller’s investigators have access to them as they work to corroborate Mr. Comey’s account. Mr. Trump has denied pressuring Mr. Comey to end the Flynn investigation. Mr. Comey was fired last spring, and the revelation of his conversations with Mr. Trump helped lead to the special counsel’s appointment.Mr. McCabe is known to have had at least three meetings with the president. In one, he asked Mr. McCabe how he had voted in the presidential election. In each, he asked about Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill, who ran a failed campaign as a Democrat for the Virginia State Senate. Mr. McCabe has identified as a lifelong Republican but did not vote in the 2016 presidential race.The existence of his memos was first reported by The Associated Press.Mr. McCabe was fired less than two days before his retirement. Attorney General Jeff Sessions cited what he said was a lack of candor by Mr. McCabe in interviews with internal investigators. His firing had been recommended by career disciplinary officials at the F.B.I.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.In particular, Republicans pointed to Andrew Weissmann, who served as F.B.I. general counsel under Mr. Mueller. Mr. Weissmann is a career prosecutor but, while in private law practice, donated thousands of dollars toward President Barack Obama’s election effort.In his Sunday morning Twitter blasts, Mr. Trump also renewed his attacks on James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, and Andrew G. McCabe, his former deputy, both of whom, like Mr. Mueller, are longtime Republicans. Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey last May, at first attributing the decision to the F.B.I. director’s handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server but later telling an interviewer that he had the Russia investigation in mind when he made the decision.Mr. Sessions, under intense public pressure from Mr. Trump, fired Mr. McCabe on Friday after an inspector general found that he had not been forthcoming about authorizing F.B.I. officials to provide information about the Clinton inquiry in 2016 to a reporter.“Wow, watch Comey lie under oath to Senator G when asked ‘have you ever been an anonymous source...or known someone else to be an anonymous source...?’” Mr. Trump wrote. “He said strongly ‘never, no.’ He lied as shown clearly on @foxandfriends.”Mr. Trump went on to dismiss reports that Mr. McCabe kept detailed memos of his time as deputy F.B.I. director, just as Mr. Comey did. Mr. McCabe left those memos with the F.B.I., which means Mr. Mueller’s team has access to them.“Spent very little time with Andrew McCabe, but he never took notes when he was with me,” Mr. Trump wrote. “I don’t believe he made memos except to help his own agenda, probably at a later date. Same with lying James Comey. Can we call them Fake Memos?”Michael R. Bromwich, Mr. McCabe’s lawyer, fired back by accusing the president of corrupting the law enforcement system. “We will not be responding to each childish, defamatory, disgusting & false tweet by the President,” he wrote on Twitter. “The whole truth will come out in due course. But the tweets confirm that he has corrupted the entire process that led to Mr. McCabe’s termination and has rendered it illegitimate.”In suggesting that Mr. Comey lied under oath to Congress, Mr. Trump appeared to refer to a comment by Mr. McCabe that the former director had authorized the news media interaction at the heart of the complaint against him. The president’s Republican allies picked up the point on Sunday and pressed for appointment of a prosecutor to look at the origin of the Russia investigation.“So we know that McCabe has lied” because the inspector general concluded he had not been fully candid, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority leader, said on Fox News. “Now he’s saying about Comey — Comey may have lied as well. So I don’t think this is the end of it. But that’s why we need a second special counsel.”Other Republicans, however, suggested that the Trump administration was going too far. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida criticized the decision to fire Mr. McCabe on a Friday night shortly before his retirement took effect, jeopardizing his pension.“I don’t like the way it happened,” Mr. Rubio said on “Meet the Press” on NBC. “He should’ve been allowed to finish through the weekend.” Speaking of the president, he added: “Obviously he doesn’t like McCabe and he’s made that pretty clear now for over a year. We need to be very careful about taking these very important entities and smearing everybody in them with a broad stroke.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administration’s justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called “an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congress’s role in passing immigration laws.”The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the state’s chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The next major court fight between California and the Trump administration may involve greenhouse gas emissions.The state has a waiver under the Clean Air Act that allows it to enforce stronger air pollution standards than those set by the federal government.Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has said he is dissatisfied with that state of affairs.“California is not the arbiter of these issues,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg TV last month.On Monday, the agency took steps to challenge California’s waiver. Though the process may take some time, it is likely to produce another clash between the Trump administration and the state that has emerged as its most determined foe.California, Mr. Becerra said, is “ready to file suit.”With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.He cited what have become known as the “chicken wars” of the early 1960s, a trade dispute set off when Germany and France imposed tariffs on American chicken. The United States retaliated by imposing tariffs on an array of goods, including French brandy, light trucks and Volkswagen buses. The United States even threatened to reduce its troop presence in Europe. Despite those pressures, the newly formed European Economic Community did not back down, and in that sense the United States “lost” the war.The biggest losers, though, were American and European consumers deprived of choices in the marketplace and forced to pay higher prices for what was available.There were also unintended consequences. American automakers, insulated from foreign competition by the tariffs, failed to modernize, improve quality or reduce costs, setting the stage for a decades-long decline, which for Chrysler and General Motors ended in bankruptcy.Much the same can be said of the United States steel industry, which since World War II has probably received more protection from tariffs and quotas than any other industry. “They just used the protection to raise prices, fatten profits, pay their executives more and avoid automating and reducing costs,” Professor Conybeare said. “They didn’t use the breathing space they gained to modernize. So much of the U.S. steel industry is using obsolete technology, which is why they can’t compete.”Decades of tariff protection have done little to stem the industry’s decline. Domestic steel employment dropped from 135,000 in 2000 to 83,600 in 2016, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.Much like Mr. Trump, President George W. Bush veered from Republican free trade orthodoxy in 2002 when he imposed tariffs of up to 30 percent on certain steel products to counter what he claimed was a surge of imports (Canada, Mexico and a number of developing countries were exempted). Although the tariffs were loudly condemned by many Republicans, politicians from steel-producing states supported the move and protectionist Democrats like Representative Richard Gephardt of Missouri argued that the measures did not go far enough.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”In the end, Mr. Sessions still drafted a resignation letter later that night and sent it to the White House. Mr. Priebus then went to work on Mr. Trump, arguing that he should not accept it. The president reluctantly agreed and Mr. Sessions stayed.But that did not end the danger to the attorney general. A couple months later, Mr. Trump took his anger with Mr. Sessions public by telling The New York Times in an interview that he would not have appointed him attorney general had he known that he would recuse himself.Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump once again demanded Mr. Sessions’s resignation. Citing a White House insider, Mr. Whipple’s book says the president told Mr. Priebus to act on his order. “Don’t try to slow me down like you always do,” Mr. Trump told him. “Get the resignation of Jeff Sessions.”Mr. Priebus, however, did try to slow him down and argued that pushing out Mr. Sessions would result in the resignations of the second- and third-ranking Justice Department officials too. “If I get this resignation, you are in for a spiral of calamity that makes Comey look like a picnic,” Mr. Priebus warned him. Again, Mr. Trump backed down.But in other ways he did not. Mr. Priebus said he and other aides — including Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter; Jared Kushner, his son-in-law; and Hope Hicks, his communications director — regularly tried to convince Mr. Trump that his random, often incendiary Twitter messages were self-destructive.“I told him, ‘Some of it’s not helpful, it causes distraction. We can get thrown off our message by tweeting things that aren’t the issues of the day,’” he said. But he did not get through. “Everybody tried at different times to cool down the Twitter habit — but no one could do it. Not me, Jared, Ivanka, Hope.”Even the first lady weighed in when her husband addressed Congress. “After the joint session, we all talked to him and Melania said, ‘No tweeting,’” Mr. Priebus said. “And he said, ‘OK — for the next few days.’ We had many discussions involving this issue. We had meetings in the residence. I couldn’t stop it.”The challenge was clear from the very start when Mr. Trump called him the morning after he was sworn in ranting about news coverage comparing the size of his inaugural crowd with that of his predecessor. Mr. Priebus tried to calm the new president, but ultimately had to go along. “Am I going to go to war over this with the president of the United States?” he asked himself. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”In the end, Mr. Sessions still drafted a resignation letter later that night and sent it to the White House. Mr. Priebus then went to work on Mr. Trump, arguing that he should not accept it. The president reluctantly agreed and Mr. Sessions stayed.But that did not end the danger to the attorney general. A couple months later, Mr. Trump took his anger with Mr. Sessions public by telling The New York Times in an interview that he would not have appointed him attorney general had he known that he would recuse himself.Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump once again demanded Mr. Sessions’s resignation. Citing a White House insider, Mr. Whipple’s book says the president told Mr. Priebus to act on his order. “Don’t try to slow me down like you always do,” Mr. Trump told him. “Get the resignation of Jeff Sessions.”Mr. Priebus, however, did try to slow him down and argued that pushing out Mr. Sessions would result in the resignations of the second- and third-ranking Justice Department officials too. “If I get this resignation, you are in for a spiral of calamity that makes Comey look like a picnic,” Mr. Priebus warned him. Again, Mr. Trump backed down.But in other ways he did not. Mr. Priebus said he and other aides — including Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter; Jared Kushner, his son-in-law; and Hope Hicks, his communications director — regularly tried to convince Mr. Trump that his random, often incendiary Twitter messages were self-destructive.“I told him, ‘Some of it’s not helpful, it causes distraction. We can get thrown off our message by tweeting things that aren’t the issues of the day,’” he said. But he did not get through. “Everybody tried at different times to cool down the Twitter habit — but no one could do it. Not me, Jared, Ivanka, Hope.”Even the first lady weighed in when her husband addressed Congress. “After the joint session, we all talked to him and Melania said, ‘No tweeting,’” Mr. Priebus said. “And he said, ‘OK — for the next few days.’ We had many discussions involving this issue. We had meetings in the residence. I couldn’t stop it.”The challenge was clear from the very start when Mr. Trump called him the morning after he was sworn in ranting about news coverage comparing the size of his inaugural crowd with that of his predecessor. Mr. Priebus tried to calm the new president, but ultimately had to go along. “Am I going to go to war over this with the president of the United States?” he asked himself.Mr. Priebus’s inability to control Mr. Trump or even control who could wander in and out of the Oval Office caused consternation. Mr. Bannon told Mr. Whipple that John F. Kelly, then the secretary of homeland security, complained to him about it. “He said to me, ‘It really upsets me that I walk in the Oval Office and it’s like Grand Central Station,’” said Mr. Bannon.Ultimately, Mr. Trump would pick Mr. Kelly to replace Mr. Priebus. But Mr. Kelly, who initially earned plaudits for imposing more order on the West Wing, lately has come under fire for his management of the White House, particularly his handling of spousal abuse allegations that resulted in the resignation of the staff secretary, Rob Porter.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”Mr. Trump’s argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.Jimmy Carter endured significant political damage when his confidant and budget director, Bert Lance, was accused of banking irregularities. Even putting aside the Iran-contra scandal and the Monica S. Lewinsky affair, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton were besieged by investigations of their aides unrelated to them. In Reagan’s era, it became known as the “sleaze factor.” Mr. Clinton’s team drew the scrutiny of six independent counsels other than Kenneth W. Starr.In the current case, the targets so far have included not just a “coffee boy,” as Mr. Papadopoulos was described by an adviser to Mr. Trump, but the president’s top two campaign officials and national security adviser. While Mr. Trump has dismissed the relevance of allegations against Mr. Manafort because they involved business dealings before the campaign, the latest indictment claims that he was scheming to defraud banks while serving as Mr. Trump’s chairman.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.Once I reached the station, I learned that the next New Jersey Transit train wouldn’t arrive for 50 minutes. When I went to the enclosed (and presumably heated) waiting area, it was empty, and entry was barred by a guard at the door.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.Still, there are “a few” undervalued opportunities, Mr. Dodson said. He cited the health care sector: The biotech concern Gilead Sciences and the generic-drug maker Perrigo are two of his fund’s largest holdings. The toymaker Mattel “is on the bargain table,” he said. And even in technology, his fund has a large position in Qualcomm, currently fighting a takeover bid by the rival chip-maker Broadcom.If so much is indeed overvalued, then this year’s market could well reward discerning active managers. “I worry about the index funds,” Mr. Dodson said. “They’re getting close to 25 percent in technology, given the high valuations and market caps. If there’s a reversal, it’s going to hit the index funds hard. This may finally be the year that active managers outperform.”Mr. Stack agreed. “Active management isn’t about beating the market but about achieving market gains within a defined acceptance of risk,” he said. “There are selective opportunities, but you have to dig to find them. None are true bargains anymore.”He recently bought shares in the diversified industrial manufacturer Ingersoll Rand and is moving his portfolio toward more defensive positions in consumer staples, energy and materials. “I’d rather be early with portfolio defenses and leave some profits on the table than go into a bear market fully exposed,” he said.Mr. Stack said that in examining bull markets over the past 50 years, he had found that both the technology and energy sectors outperformed in the late stages of a bull market. He said investors “should have some portion of their portfolio in the materials sector, notably energy, which had been so out of favor” until mid-2017.In my outlook column last year, Damien Courvalin, head of energy research for Goldman Sachs’s Global Investment Research commodities team, was uncannily accurate in forecasting that oil prices would recover in 2017 and stabilize at $55 to $60 per barrel. (West Texas intermediate crude oil futures ended the year at $60.42.) So I asked him what his team was predicting this year.“From a total-return perspective, it’s quite compelling to be invested in commodities,” he said — even though he doesn’t see oil prices rising much above current levels by year’s end. That’s because, thanks to the shale oil revolution, producers outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries can easily ramp up production when prices are $60 to $65. But commodities investors can still make a profit, he said, by betting on stable to rising prices in the futures market.Like Mr. Stack, Mr. Courvalin noted that commodities and energy typically do well in the late stages of an economic expansion. Non-energy commodities may do even better, since they have no equivalent to shale and mining companies can’t increase production quickly in response to rising prices. In the mining sector, “margins are improving, orders are picking up, and we’re seeing new investment,” he said.It may seem a paradox that investors’ worries about the coming year are mounting even as the economic outlook seems so bright. “Investors are struggling with this market because the skies are blue,” Mr. Stack said. “It’s rare when you have an investing climate like this one, where it’s all but impossible to find something to worry about, either domestically or globally.”But that’s true in the late stages of most bull markets, he said, meaning investors need to be alert. And while virtually no one can foresee the next catalyst for a correction or bear market, even a hint that the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates more than expected would most likely set off seismic tremors.The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.Labor discipline was another matter. In the farming and domestic work that people had been doing for generations, “intense activity alternated with slack times,” whereas factory production was repetitive and continuous, requiring “coordinated activity by dozens or hundreds of workers, who were expected to start and stop work at the same time, day after day.”Now that factory work and stable, blue-collar jobs are such potent sources of nostalgia, it can be hard to recall how truly disruptive the manufacturing age was. Freeman does a superb job of reminding us. For an agrarian society like England, the factory generated a wistfulness for the bucolic agricultural past. The “dark Satanic Mills” bemoaned by William Blake were powered by steam and coal-fired boilers that belched smoke and soot. Seventy-hour work weeks were common. Male workers chafed at the constant supervision on the factory floor, and owners preferred not to employ men, anyway. “Today, in the United States, factories are associated with masculinity,” Freeman writes, “but in their early days they were spaces largely occupied by women and children.”Some of the details recounted here are familiar, though still appalling. In the 19th century, textile mills in New England — which were supposed to be gentler than the cruel depredations of the Old World — employed children as young as 4. Factory workers in Britain overwhelmed urban areas, crowding together in squalor. A Manchester official described streets “so covered with refuse and excrementitious matter as to be almost impassable from depth of mud, and intolerable from stench.”As Freeman shows, what started inauspiciously became an engine for material abundance and, in the cases of the United States and the Soviet Union, a source of national pride. Factories, especially steel mills, became the behemoths of the book’s title, consolidations of equipment and labor on a massive scale. Freeman suggests the awe that these enormous structures must have inspired, describing how dignitaries attending the opening of a steel mill in 19th-century Maryland “rode in decorated gondola cars along the route iron ore would take,” ascending to a height of eight stories. Unlike the textile worker, who brought to mind wan images of a young woman or “a sickly child,” steelworkers were often portrayed “as intensely masculine, often bare-chested, with muscles rippling.”With size and strength came strife too, as steel mills became sites for a bitter class war. Start-up costs were high, so a few big firms dominated the industry. Unions organized in response. Steel magnates like Andrew Carnegie resented any incursions on their freedom to set wages and working conditions at will; they wanted the right to squeeze labor to maintain profitability. The Homestead strike of 1892 turned into a literal conflagration, as steelworkers in Pennsylvania set the Monongahela River on fire.Freeman handles all of this material with the seriousness it deserves. If “Behemoth” can feel a little slow-going at times, that’s partly because of the knottiness of the history Freeman lays out, as well as his honorable refusal to resort to simplistic notions of grand progress or portentous doom.He shows how Henry Ford’s assembly-line innovations rendered his company both dominant and vulnerable: Switching to a new product in 1927 from the Model T required a wholesale overhaul of equipment and processes, costing Ford today’s equivalent of a cool $3.5 billion. Gigant industrialism in the Soviet Union and the Eastern bloc showed its own seams and contradictions; for all the talk of a workers’ paradise, the Soviets eventually criminalized absenteeism, tardiness and “quitting without permission,” controlling labor in ways that would have made the most ruthless capitalist proud.Toward the end of “Behemoth,” Freeman finally arrives in China and Vietnam, where the factory system is still flourishing. Unlike the 20th-century behemoths of the United States, which were publicly showcased as marvels of ingenuity and industry, these new factories keep much of their work hidden. Freeman says Foxconn City in Shenzhen, China, might well be the largest factory ever, though the number of employees is hard to pin down: perhaps as many as 400,000 workers, making sleek and expensive gadgets like Apple’s iPhone.A spate of worker suicides at Foxconn captured the world’s attention in 2010 — at least for a while, though none of Foxconn’s major clients stopped using it. Nor did reports of Foxconn’s merciless and degrading environment put a dent in demand for Apple’s coveted products. Instead of substantively changing its production regime, Foxconn surrounded its factory buildings with yellow netting, to catch despairing workers before they hit the ground.Our brave new world of consumer goods is now fabricated in “bland, boring structures,” Freeman writes, designed for grim functionality as opposed to showing off: “Rather than representing an enlargement of the human spirit, modern factory giants often seem to symbolize its diminishment.” “Behemoth” doesn’t romanticize the earlier incarnations of gigantic factories, but Freeman understands why some people did — and still do.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.He cited what have become known as the “chicken wars” of the early 1960s, a trade dispute set off when Germany and France imposed tariffs on American chicken. The United States retaliated by imposing tariffs on an array of goods, including French brandy, light trucks and Volkswagen buses. The United States even threatened to reduce its troop presence in Europe. Despite those pressures, the newly formed European Economic Community did not back down, and in that sense the United States “lost” the war.The biggest losers, though, were American and European consumers deprived of choices in the marketplace and forced to pay higher prices for what was available.There were also unintended consequences. American automakers, insulated from foreign competition by the tariffs, failed to modernize, improve quality or reduce costs, setting the stage for a decades-long decline, which for Chrysler and General Motors ended in bankruptcy.Much the same can be said of the United States steel industry, which since World War II has probably received more protection from tariffs and quotas than any other industry. “They just used the protection to raise prices, fatten profits, pay their executives more and avoid automating and reducing costs,” Professor Conybeare said. “They didn’t use the breathing space they gained to modernize. So much of the U.S. steel industry is using obsolete technology, which is why they can’t compete.”Decades of tariff protection have done little to stem the industry’s decline. Domestic steel employment dropped from 135,000 in 2000 to 83,600 in 2016, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.“I’ve long felt that if Trump didn’t do well, it would be because of organizational issues,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn’t been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere.”Mr. Elson said Mr. Trump acted more like the typical entrepreneur than an experienced manager. “A problem with entrepreneurs is that people get tired of it and they move on,” he said. “People just get worn out. At some point you need a real manager. A lot of entrepreneurs sell their businesses when they reach a certain size and they realize they can’t manage them.”Would naming Mr. Cohn as chief of staff ameliorate the problem? Despite disenchantment with Mr. Kelly and his handling of the Porter situation, no one I interviewed thinks Mr. Cohn could fundamentally change the dynamic in the Trump White House any more than Mr. Kelly has.Mr. Cohn is now basking in the afterglow of the tax legislation, which seems to be growing in popularity with the public. His supporters point to the first-rate team he assembled at the National Economic Council as evidence that he — perhaps alone among top White House officials — could attract and retain talent. He enjoys good relations with Congress.But if Mr. Cohn became Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, he would have to sublimate his own beliefs to the president’s agenda. As one former White House official told me, “He can’t pull another Charlottesville,” referring to Mr. Cohn’s efforts last summer to publicly distance himself from the president’s racially charged comments while still working for him.Thanks to that incident, Mr. Cohn has already fallen from favor once, and his current rehabilitation may not last. People like Mr. Trump “have friends for a day,” Mr. Elson said. “That’s another quality of the entrepreneur. Like it or not, it’s part of what makes them successful.”While Mr. Cohn has influential supporters at the White House, talk of his possible elevation has prompted plenty of opposition, too, especially from representatives of Mr. Trump’s populist base. Mr. Cohn is, after all, a longtime Manhattan Democrat.A White House spokesman declined to comment on behalf of Mr. Cohn.In any event, Mr. Trump may be oblivious to the staff turnover and widespread vacancies in the executive branch, and indifferent to calls to replace Mr. Kelly.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.As you might imagine, T’Challa experienced a bit of culture shock. He bungled questions about credit-card debt and parenting, before buzzing in on a clue about law enforcement: “The policeman says there’s been some robberies in your neighborhood and asks if you have any information.” Boseman responded, “What is, not only do I tell this man what I know, but I also assist him in tracking down the offender. After all, our ministers of law enforcement are only here to protect us.”Thompson twisted his features into an expression reminiscent of the nauseated face emoji. “I’m thinking you haven’t spent much time in America,” he said.The “Weekend Update” co-anchor Colin Jost also addressed President Trump’s decision to send National Guard troops to the border with Mexico, even though, he pointed out, “reports show that illegal border crossings are at their lowest level since 1971.” He continued, “It’s all part of Trump’s philosophy: ‘If it ain’t broke, I’ll break it.”A robotic Mark Zuckerberg, played by Alex Moffat, stopped by “Weekend Update” to address the criticism he has received since the Cambridge Analytica data leak. “Hi there, Colin,” he greeted Jost, before instructing himself to “begin eye contact.”“Unlike my facial expression, Facebook is going to change,” Moffat promised, in an interview punctuated by high-pitched giggles and stiff attempts at dabbing.He concluded with a disingenuous mea culpa:WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.“I’ve long felt that if Trump didn’t do well, it would be because of organizational issues,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn’t been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere.”Mr. Elson said Mr. Trump acted more like the typical entrepreneur than an experienced manager. “A problem with entrepreneurs is that people get tired of it and they move on,” he said. “People just get worn out. At some point you need a real manager. A lot of entrepreneurs sell their businesses when they reach a certain size and they realize they can’t manage them.”Would naming Mr. Cohn as chief of staff ameliorate the problem? Despite disenchantment with Mr. Kelly and his handling of the Porter situation, no one I interviewed thinks Mr. Cohn could fundamentally change the dynamic in the Trump White House any more than Mr. Kelly has.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.As you might imagine, T’Challa experienced a bit of culture shock. He bungled questions about credit-card debt and parenting, before buzzing in on a clue about law enforcement: “The policeman says there’s been some robberies in your neighborhood and asks if you have any information.” Boseman responded, “What is, not only do I tell this man what I know, but I also assist him in tracking down the offender. After all, our ministers of law enforcement are only here to protect us.”Thompson twisted his features into an expression reminiscent of the nauseated face emoji. “I’m thinking you haven’t spent much time in America,” he said.The “Weekend Update” co-anchor Colin Jost also addressed President Trump’s decision to send National Guard troops to the border with Mexico, even though, he pointed out, “reports show that illegal border crossings are at their lowest level since 1971.” He continued, “It’s all part of Trump’s philosophy: ‘If it ain’t broke, I’ll break it.”A robotic Mark Zuckerberg, played by Alex Moffat, stopped by “Weekend Update” to address the criticism he has received since the Cambridge Analytica data leak. “Hi there, Colin,” he greeted Jost, before instructing himself to “begin eye contact.”“Unlike my facial expression, Facebook is going to change,” Moffat promised, in an interview punctuated by high-pitched giggles and stiff attempts at dabbing.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.Still, there are “a few” undervalued opportunities, Mr. Dodson said. He cited the health care sector: The biotech concern Gilead Sciences and the generic-drug maker Perrigo are two of his fund’s largest holdings. The toymaker Mattel “is on the bargain table,” he said. And even in technology, his fund has a large position in Qualcomm, currently fighting a takeover bid by the rival chip-maker Broadcom.If so much is indeed overvalued, then this year’s market could well reward discerning active managers. “I worry about the index funds,” Mr. Dodson said. “They’re getting close to 25 percent in technology, given the high valuations and market caps. If there’s a reversal, it’s going to hit the index funds hard. This may finally be the year that active managers outperform.”Mr. Stack agreed. “Active management isn’t about beating the market but about achieving market gains within a defined acceptance of risk,” he said. “There are selective opportunities, but you have to dig to find them. None are true bargains anymore.”He recently bought shares in the diversified industrial manufacturer Ingersoll Rand and is moving his portfolio toward more defensive positions in consumer staples, energy and materials. “I’d rather be early with portfolio defenses and leave some profits on the table than go into a bear market fully exposed,” he said.Mr. Stack said that in examining bull markets over the past 50 years, he had found that both the technology and energy sectors outperformed in the late stages of a bull market. He said investors “should have some portion of their portfolio in the materials sector, notably energy, which had been so out of favor” until mid-2017.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.)He said the credit was “more important for other players who are much further away from the 200,000 United States sales mark.”In theory, the problem shouldn’t be difficult for Congress to fix. One approach would be to lift the 200,000 vehicle cap and continue the credit indefinitely, a move that would most likely be welcomed by makers and consumers of electric vehicles and has the support of green energy lobbying groups. But the price tag for the government could become prohibitive if electric car sales surge.Or Congress could phase out the incentives beginning at a target date that would apply to all manufacturers, or after total industry sales hit a level that suggests a move to electric vehicles is sustainable. Depending on the time or level of sales chosen, that could address concerns about the impact of the tax credit on the deficit.Tesla and G.M. have not proposed a specific fix.Many countries have far more robust subsidies for electric cars than the United States, including most of Europe. Norway has by far the highest percentage of electric car ownership in the world (about one-third of the vehicles sold there last year were electric or hybrid), along with the most lavish subsidies, which include sharply reduced sales taxes as well as free parking and use of uncongested bus lanes. The country has set a goal of zero auto emissions by 2025.While no one expects the United States to go to such an extreme, revising the electric vehicle tax credit and bolstering other incentives for renewable energy could be a rare source of bipartisan agreement. When it comes to jobs, a top priority for both Congress and the Trump administration, the Department of Energy reported that in 2016, 3.38 million Americans were employed in the clean energy sector, 10 percent more than the 2.99 million employed in fossil fuels.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a leading anti-abortion group, said the president’s directives amounted to taking “a monumental stand.”For someone who once described himself as “very pro-choice,” Mr. Trump’s transformation into a champion of the anti-abortion cause is a remarkable political evolution.Anti-abortion activists and Christian conservative leaders have remained one of his most loyal and deferential constituencies, even as he faced accusations that would have been the undoing of other politicians. This week, as the president brushed off allegations that his personal lawyer paid a pornographic-film actress with whom he was said to be involved with $130,000 in hush money, the religious right was full of praise for the president.“President Trump has never pretended to be a Bible-banging evangelical,” said Penny Young Nance, president of Concerned Women for America, a Christian conservative organization. “He is who he is. His policies speak for themselves.”Besides his executive orders, conservatives are celebrating one of the most ambitious efforts ever undertaken by a White House to reshape the federal judiciary.Mr. Trump has appointed judges to appellate courts at a rate faster than any new president since Richard M. Nixon, and the Republican-controlled Senate is working to speed the approval of Mr. Trump’s lower-level district court nominees. Abortion rights groups have objected to many of the nominees.Mr. Trump’s policies could have serious consequences for abortion providers like Planned Parenthood, which has become a target of the Trump administration and the Republican-controlled Congress.The new directive Mr. Trump issued on Friday could prove especially problematic. Planned Parenthood says that 60 percent of its patients receive Medicaid assistance. And the new rules would make it easier for states to bar Medicaid funding from going to the women’s health provider.“This is part of the Trump administration’s commitment to rolling back regulations the Obama administration put out to radically favor abortion,” said Charmaine Yoest, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”Mr. Sessions’s standing with Mr. Trump has eroded in his year as attorney general. The president criticized his Senate confirmation performance and his decision to remove himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, even musing that he would not have hired Mr. Sessions had he anticipated the recusal. He berated him so severely over Mr. Mueller’s appointment that Mr. Sessions offered his resignation.That fraught relationship has impaired Mr. Sessions’s ability to act as a bulwark between his lawyers and politics, former career prosecutors said.“Sessions’s silence is evidence that Trump’s public neutering of anyone close to this investigation is working,” said Paul Pelletier, a Democratic candidate for Congress in Virginia who was a federal prosecutor for nearly three decades. “It is deleterious to the whole criminal justice process.”Mr. Pelletier said that although the attorneys general with whom he worked, from Edwin Meese III to Eric H. Holder Jr., clashed with their staff, they gave prosecutors and the institution itself unwavering public support.“Prosecutors and agents are extremely vulnerable if they’re not properly supported by leadership, especially when it comes to investigations and attacks launched on the political side,” said Daniel Petalas, a former prosecutor in the department’s public integrity section and the United States attorney’s office in Washington.The department is often involved in high-profile cases, sometimes with powerful people at the center who seek to discredit the investigations against them. “Prosecutors have to stand silently and cannot defend their work to the public,” Mr. Petalas said. “They can only hope that the leadership will serve as a bulwark.”Two current federal prosecutors who spoke on the condition of anonymity said they were working hard to maintain morale. They were heartened by reports of Mr. Wray standing up to Mr. Trump, and they remain optimistic that the institution can withstand political attacks, with or without Mr. Sessions’s public support.The silence from Mr. Sessions could have a more pernicious effect on the staff than the blow to morale, the officials say. The condemnations send the message that people can be persecuted for holding political beliefs at odds with those of the president.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.Another reason to know your nenes is that, although rare in the wild, they often come up in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in Times crosswords 295 times since 1944.It appeared in the puzzle on March 12 with the clue “Hawaiian goose.” The word might also appear in easy puzzles with the clue “Hawaiian state bird” or “Hawaiian honker.”Later in the week, as the crosswords become harder, it might be referred to as “Aloha State bird,” “Endangered state bird,” “Lava geese,” “Bird so-called from its call” or “Gray-brown goose.”You can find out about the nene and other birds that appear regularly in our Crossword Aviary.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.But Mr. Trump passed over Mr. Cohn for the post of Federal Reserve chairman. In late December Mr. Cohn told the news site Axios he would still be in the administration three months hence. Earlier this month the time frame seemed to have shrunk. Asked how long he would stay at the White House, Mr. Cohn said only, “I’m here today and I’m here next week.”Professor Smith of N.Y.U. said he hoped Mr. Cohn would leave soon “because his reputation will be mangled if he stays.”“He delivered the tax legislation,” he said. “Whether you agree with it or not, he executed. That’s his skill. And he stood up to the president after Charlottesville. People respect that. I think he could leave now with his reputation intact.”Alone among the prominent Goldman alumni in the administration, Mr. Mnuchin seems likely to stay. “He’s been a good and loyal employee,” Professor Smith said. “But he’s more of a Hollywood person now. His reputation in the professional financial sector may not matter that much to him.”Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci aside, “any so-called exodus may be a function of what they achieved,” Mr. Gingrich said of the Goldman veterans.“There’s nothing on the agenda this year that’s nearly as exciting as reshaping the tax code,” he said. “They worked very hard and tried to do things that were effective. In that sense they were a real asset.”At the same time, Mr. Gingrich contended that Mr. Trump — and not his advisers — deserved the lion’s share of credit for the tax bill, for building confidence in the economy, and for not launching a trade war.“He has a much broader capacity than people in the District of Columbia give him credit for,” Mr. Gingrich said of the president. “People get so wound up in the goofier things he does, the tweets and outrageous statements. But underneath that is a very methodical and pragmatic businessman. He knows how to use competent people.”Whether Mr. Trump can replace the departing Goldman alumni with people of similar stature remains to be seen. Mr. Gingrich pointed to Mr. Trump’s appointment of Jerome Powell as the new Federal Reserve chairman as evidence that he will be able to recruit top economic talent.Professor Smith said anyone considering a job at the White House would have to weigh the high risks of tethering his or her reputation to the Trump presidency. Even so, he said, “you can never underestimate the allure of being a big shot in Washington.’’Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.Long-simmering tensions between Qualcomm and Apple reached a boiling point in 2016, when Qualcomm halted rebates it was giving Apple. Qualcomm claimed Apple had violated the terms of the rebate agreement by cooperating with South Korea’s investigation into what Samsung and others said was exclusionary conduct by Qualcomm. Apple responded by withholding the license fees it paid manufacturers of iPhones, who in turn stopped passing on the payments to Qualcomm.Lawsuits and counterclaims erupted, and Qualcomm reduced its revenue estimates by $500 million a year.While Apple has continued to buy and deploy the latest Qualcomm chips, it also reached out to a rival chip maker, Intel, which began supplying an alternative to Qualcomm’s chip for the iPhone 7. (That phone, the iPhone 8 and the X may contain either a Qualcomm or an Intel chip.)Qualcomm claims that Apple has compromised the performance of Qualcomm-equipped handsets in order to mask their superiority over the Intel-equipped phones. (Both Intel and Apple have vehemently denied the claims.)Numerous lawsuits are now well underway in the United States, with some expected to go to trial later this year. Regulators in the European Union, Taiwan, South Korea and China have ruled that Qualcomm’s licensing practices are unlawful and have levied fines, decisions that Qualcomm is appealing. In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission is conducting its own investigation.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.State lawmakers also passed the Immigrant Worker Protection Act, which prohibits local business from allowing immigration to gain access to employee records without a court order or subpoena. Mr. Becerra warned that anyone who violated the new law would face a fine of up to $10,000.In the state budget bill, California lawmakers prohibited new contracts for immigration detention in the state and gave the state attorney general the power to monitor all state immigration detention centers.The state and several local governments including the cities of San Francisco and Sacramento have also set up legal defense funds to help defend immigrants during deportation proceedings.“I’m worried about the ‘Dreamers,’ hard-working immigrant families and law-abiding people who are just trying to make their way like the rest of us,” Mayor Darrell Steinberg of Sacramento said this year when asked about the state’s sanctuary legislation. “Civil disobedience is a respectful way to show your love for country.”Tensions between local and federal officials reached yet another height last week, when Mayor Libby Schaaf of Oakland publicly warned of coming large-scale immigration arrest operations. Mr. Homan compared the mayor to a “gang lookout yelling, “Police!” and said she gave people living in the United States illegally a chance to flee. He said her warning meant that the federal immigration authorities arrested about 200 people rather than the 1,000 they had anticipated rounding up.Although Mr. Homan and other federal officials have warned about targeting California as it steps up immigration enforcement efforts, the number of people arrested has not drastically increased so far. In December, the most recent month for which data is available, 1,715 unauthorized immigrants in California were arrested by ICE, compared with 1,379 in December 2016. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.WASHINGTON — Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director who was fired late Friday, kept contemporaneous memos about his interactions with President Trump and his conversations with the former director James B. Comey, a person close to Mr. McCabe said on Saturday.The memos could bolster the account of Mr. Comey, whose own memos and testimony describe repeated requests by Mr. Trump to clear his name. Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump also asked him to shut down a criminal investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Both matters are under investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is considering whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.Mr. McCabe’s memos were left at the F.B.I., which means that Mr. Mueller’s investigators have access to them as they work to corroborate Mr. Comey’s account. Mr. Trump has denied pressuring Mr. Comey to end the Flynn investigation. Mr. Comey was fired last spring, and the revelation of his conversations with Mr. Trump helped lead to the special counsel’s appointment.Mr. McCabe is known to have had at least three meetings with the president. In one, he asked Mr. McCabe how he had voted in the presidential election. In each, he asked about Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill, who ran a failed campaign as a Democrat for the Virginia State Senate. Mr. McCabe has identified as a lifelong Republican but did not vote in the 2016 presidential race.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.)He said the credit was “more important for other players who are much further away from the 200,000 United States sales mark.”In theory, the problem shouldn’t be difficult for Congress to fix. One approach would be to lift the 200,000 vehicle cap and continue the credit indefinitely, a move that would most likely be welcomed by makers and consumers of electric vehicles and has the support of green energy lobbying groups. But the price tag for the government could become prohibitive if electric car sales surge.Or Congress could phase out the incentives beginning at a target date that would apply to all manufacturers, or after total industry sales hit a level that suggests a move to electric vehicles is sustainable. Depending on the time or level of sales chosen, that could address concerns about the impact of the tax credit on the deficit.Tesla and G.M. have not proposed a specific fix.Many countries have far more robust subsidies for electric cars than the United States, including most of Europe. Norway has by far the highest percentage of electric car ownership in the world (about one-third of the vehicles sold there last year were electric or hybrid), along with the most lavish subsidies, which include sharply reduced sales taxes as well as free parking and use of uncongested bus lanes. The country has set a goal of zero auto emissions by 2025.While no one expects the United States to go to such an extreme, revising the electric vehicle tax credit and bolstering other incentives for renewable energy could be a rare source of bipartisan agreement. When it comes to jobs, a top priority for both Congress and the Trump administration, the Department of Energy reported that in 2016, 3.38 million Americans were employed in the clean energy sector, 10 percent more than the 2.99 million employed in fossil fuels.How the renewable energy subsidies managed to survive to be part of the tax law remains a subject of debate, but nearly every explanation points in part to Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa, the powerful Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee and a staunch supporter of renewable energy, especially wind. Iowa is a leader in wind power, which generates 36 percent of the state’s electricity. The wind power industry employs 9,000 people in the state, according to the Iowa Wind Energy Association. (Senator Grassley did not respond to requests for comment.)Trying to tamper with the renewable energy subsidies and the electric vehicle credit, as the House version of the tax bill did, “was asking for trouble,” said Dean Zerbe, former tax counsel for the Senate Finance Committee and a national managing director at Alliantgroup, which specializes in tax credits and incentives. “Certain senators wouldn’t budge on that.”With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.He cited what have become known as the “chicken wars” of the early 1960s, a trade dispute set off when Germany and France imposed tariffs on American chicken. The United States retaliated by imposing tariffs on an array of goods, including French brandy, light trucks and Volkswagen buses. The United States even threatened to reduce its troop presence in Europe. Despite those pressures, the newly formed European Economic Community did not back down, and in that sense the United States “lost” the war.The biggest losers, though, were American and European consumers deprived of choices in the marketplace and forced to pay higher prices for what was available.There were also unintended consequences. American automakers, insulated from foreign competition by the tariffs, failed to modernize, improve quality or reduce costs, setting the stage for a decades-long decline, which for Chrysler and General Motors ended in bankruptcy.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”Much the same can be said about unemployment, which fell to 4.1 percent from 4.7 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year as president, and which also reflects the tight labor market conditions that have been developing for years. The unemployment rate fell much more during the Obama years (three full percentage points, from when Mr. Obama took office until when he left), which would be expected given the severe recession he inherited.In any event, it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s impact on the labor market. Economists generally agree that at least some of the Republican tax cuts will flow through to workers, although there are widely differing projections about how much, and most say the largest share will go to shareholders in the form of dividends, stock buybacks and higher share prices. Professor Slemrod said we may never know for sure, but “in five or six years we may be able to tell if some of the more extreme claims are reasonable.”It’s interesting what President Trump didn’t claim any credit for: low interest rates and inflation. Perhaps that’s because they’re moving upward, although slowly, and pose the biggest threat to the economic indicators he extolled. (On Wednesday the Federal Reserve kept its benchmark rate unchanged after raising it three times during the last year.)Unlike the 1986 tax legislation, which claimed to be revenue-neutral, the latest Republican bill is a huge tax cut. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new law would add just over $1 trillion to the deficit over the next decade. It predicted higher interest rates as a result, which it estimated would cost the Treasury an additional $66 billion in debt service costs.Some supporters of the tax law contend that economic growth will come so quickly that increased tax revenue will more than make up for the cuts. The actual impact on the deficit won’t be evident for at least a year, but the rising deficits that followed tax cuts in 1981 forced Republicans to raise taxes in both 1982 and 1984.Interest rates are already trending higher. Both Professors Auerbach and Slemrod agreed that rates are likely to rise further and would be an important measure of the impact of the tax legislation and Mr. Trump’s economic policies. If they rise faster than at the cautious pace the Federal Reserve has projected and investors expect, that could bring the stock market rally to an abrupt end. Higher-than-expected rates could also slow the economy, or even tip it into recession.How sensitive the stock market is to interest rates was on display the same day as Mr. Trump’s speech, when shares plunged on fears of higher rates after the 10-year Treasury yield rose above 2.7 percent; that’s still very low by historic standards, but higher than when Mr. Trump took office.The big tax cut is a large economic stimulus, and “right now stimulus is a danger,” said Professor Auerbach, given that there is nearly full employment and already-strong economic growth.We’ll know a year from now whether the Federal Reserve stuck with its projected three increases in rates this year, and whether any exceeded quarter-point increments.The bottom line: Presidents tend to get credit (or blame) for whatever economies they preside over, but it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s long-term impact. Even after years have passed, Professor Slemrod said, “We’ll never know with 100 percent certainty.”Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).Of the 20 finalist cities, Indianapolis has the least traffic congestion and the lowest average home prices, according to the Chamber of Commerce. That’s not to say there aren’t high-end options: A 21,000-square-foot, six-bedroom 1930s-era mansion, currently home to the Indiana University chancellor, is on the market for just under $7 million. (It might be perfect for the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos.)For all its virtues, Indianapolis faces a number of hurdles. While Mr. Stutz told me that Salesforce had found an abundance of homegrown tech talent there, Amazon knows it will need to import many of the high-level software engineers and employees who will form the core of the work force at its second headquarters. That may be a challenge.Unlike Amazon’s home state of Washington, Indiana reliably votes Republican in presidential elections, though it went for Barack Obama over John McCain in 2008. Donald J. Trump carried the state overwhelmingly in 2016, and Mike Pence, an Indiana native and self-described religious conservative, served as Indiana’s governor before becoming Mr. Trump’s vice president.A strong streak of social conservatism runs through the state (though not so much in Indianapolis), and this week the state legislature was roiled by a new round in the culture wars as legislators debated whether to pass a hate-crimes bill to protect victims of bias based on race, religion, sex, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation. Indiana is one of only five states without such legislation.Partly as a result of pressure from Salesforce, other companies and the N.C.A.A., Mr. Pence, when he was governor, amended a so-called Religious Freedom Restoration Act in 2015 that had allowed business owners to discriminate against gays and lesbians on the grounds of religious principle.Mr. Huber said the Chamber of Commerce had been a longtime supporter of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights, and was a strong supporter of comprehensive anti-hate-crime legislation. The city has had a comprehensive human rights ordinance in place since 2005, he said.Indianapolis may never emerge as the popular favorite to win, but I wouldn’t count it out.Maureen Krauss, the chamber’s chief economic development officer, who worked on Indianapolis’s proposal, said a team of about 300 people had contributed to the first-round effort, and they worked 43 days straight.“We finished it two days early,” she said. “Amazon is a creative company and a tech company, and that’s the kind of proposal we tried to deliver.”House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”WASHINGTON — President Trump asked the man he was considering as temporary F.B.I. director how he had voted in the 2016 presidential election, according to a person familiar with the discussion.The question was directed to Andrew G. McCabe, the bureau’s deputy director. Mr. Trump abruptly fired the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, in May, and at the time, the president openly discussed the need for any successor to be “loyal,” according to an adviser to the president.The week that Mr. Comey was fired, Mr. McCabe met with Mr. Trump a handful of times, a person familiar with the meetings said.It was at one of those meetings that Mr. Trump asked Mr. McCabe whom he had voted for, another person familiar with the encounters said. Mr. McCabe said he had not voted. The exchange was first reported by The Washington Post.The question was unusually and overtly political for an interview related to a position in the Justice Department, which is supposed to maintain its independence from politics.At their final meeting, Mr. Trump offered Mr. McCabe the job and told him he planned to give him the role of acting director. The president also said that he planned to make an appearance that week at F.B.I. Headquarters to bolster morale. Mr. McCabe told Mr. Trump that it would be a risky move after firing a well-respected director, so the president scuttled the trip, citing scheduling conflicts.For weeks, Mr. Trump and his allies have focused their ire on Mr. McCabe. Mr. McCabe’s wife was a candidate for Virginia State Senate in 2015, and she received donations from the “super PAC” supporting Terry McAuliffe, the state’s governor at the time, who was a longtime ally of Hillary Clinton’s.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.Inspectors general at cabinet agencies are kept separate to preserve their independence. Paul Light, a New York University professor and specialist on the offices, recalled that President Ronald Reagan fired all of the inspectors general but was forced by Congress to rehire some of them. “They have protections in statutes against arbitrary dismissal,” he said.After Mr. Trump’s tweet, Mr. Horowitz, the inspector general, received support from Republicans, including Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee that confirmed him.“I have complete confidence in him and hope he is given the time, the resources and the independence to complete his work,” said Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight Committee.Several Republicans expressed dismay at the president’s continued campaign against Mr. Sessions. “It’s kind of mind-boggling that he would call out his own attorney general,” former Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah said on Fox News.Representative Peter T. King of New York, also on Fox, expressed sympathy with Mr. Trump’s desire for a second investigation run by Mr. Sessions, but added that the president should not berate him. “Jeff Sessions is loyal to the president and he’s one of the first to support him, and he’s often in very difficult positions and I think he’s trying to reconcile as best as he can,” he said.Michael W. McConnell, a former appellate judge now at Stanford Law School, said a president has every right to direct his attorney general.“What raises eyebrows is the form and tone of the tweet, which appears to be a commentary on the attorney general’s decisions rather than an exercise of presidential supervisory authority,” he said. “Mr. Trump is the president. If he wants something done differently, he should order that it be done differently, with serious reflection, through proper channels and in the proper form.”Jamil Jaffer, a law professor at George Mason University and former associate White House counsel under President George W. Bush, said social media was not the best way to direct action by an attorney general. “The president has a lot of tools that are a lot more effective than putting the A.G. on blast on Twitter,” he said.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”Mr. Trump’s argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.Jimmy Carter endured significant political damage when his confidant and budget director, Bert Lance, was accused of banking irregularities. Even putting aside the Iran-contra scandal and the Monica S. Lewinsky affair, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton were besieged by investigations of their aides unrelated to them. In Reagan’s era, it became known as the “sleaze factor.” Mr. Clinton’s team drew the scrutiny of six independent counsels other than Kenneth W. Starr.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a leading anti-abortion group, said the president’s directives amounted to taking “a monumental stand.”For someone who once described himself as “very pro-choice,” Mr. Trump’s transformation into a champion of the anti-abortion cause is a remarkable political evolution.Anti-abortion activists and Christian conservative leaders have remained one of his most loyal and deferential constituencies, even as he faced accusations that would have been the undoing of other politicians. This week, as the president brushed off allegations that his personal lawyer paid a pornographic-film actress with whom he was said to be involved with $130,000 in hush money, the religious right was full of praise for the president.“President Trump has never pretended to be a Bible-banging evangelical,” said Penny Young Nance, president of Concerned Women for America, a Christian conservative organization. “He is who he is. His policies speak for themselves.”Besides his executive orders, conservatives are celebrating one of the most ambitious efforts ever undertaken by a White House to reshape the federal judiciary.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.In particular, Republicans pointed to Andrew Weissmann, who served as F.B.I. general counsel under Mr. Mueller. Mr. Weissmann is a career prosecutor but, while in private law practice, donated thousands of dollars toward President Barack Obama’s election effort.In his Sunday morning Twitter blasts, Mr. Trump also renewed his attacks on James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, and Andrew G. McCabe, his former deputy, both of whom, like Mr. Mueller, are longtime Republicans. Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey last May, at first attributing the decision to the F.B.I. director’s handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server but later telling an interviewer that he had the Russia investigation in mind when he made the decision.Mr. Sessions, under intense public pressure from Mr. Trump, fired Mr. McCabe on Friday after an inspector general found that he had not been forthcoming about authorizing F.B.I. officials to provide information about the Clinton inquiry in 2016 to a reporter.“Wow, watch Comey lie under oath to Senator G when asked ‘have you ever been an anonymous source...or known someone else to be an anonymous source...?’” Mr. Trump wrote. “He said strongly ‘never, no.’ He lied as shown clearly on @foxandfriends.”Mr. Trump went on to dismiss reports that Mr. McCabe kept detailed memos of his time as deputy F.B.I. director, just as Mr. Comey did. Mr. McCabe left those memos with the F.B.I., which means Mr. Mueller’s team has access to them.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.As you might imagine, T’Challa experienced a bit of culture shock. He bungled questions about credit-card debt and parenting, before buzzing in on a clue about law enforcement: “The policeman says there’s been some robberies in your neighborhood and asks if you have any information.” Boseman responded, “What is, not only do I tell this man what I know, but I also assist him in tracking down the offender. After all, our ministers of law enforcement are only here to protect us.”Thompson twisted his features into an expression reminiscent of the nauseated face emoji. “I’m thinking you haven’t spent much time in America,” he said.The “Weekend Update” co-anchor Colin Jost also addressed President Trump’s decision to send National Guard troops to the border with Mexico, even though, he pointed out, “reports show that illegal border crossings are at their lowest level since 1971.” He continued, “It’s all part of Trump’s philosophy: ‘If it ain’t broke, I’ll break it.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administration’s justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called “an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congress’s role in passing immigration laws.”The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the state’s chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The next major court fight between California and the Trump administration may involve greenhouse gas emissions.The state has a waiver under the Clean Air Act that allows it to enforce stronger air pollution standards than those set by the federal government.Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has said he is dissatisfied with that state of affairs.“California is not the arbiter of these issues,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg TV last month.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.Long-simmering tensions between Qualcomm and Apple reached a boiling point in 2016, when Qualcomm halted rebates it was giving Apple. Qualcomm claimed Apple had violated the terms of the rebate agreement by cooperating with South Korea’s investigation into what Samsung and others said was exclusionary conduct by Qualcomm. Apple responded by withholding the license fees it paid manufacturers of iPhones, who in turn stopped passing on the payments to Qualcomm.Lawsuits and counterclaims erupted, and Qualcomm reduced its revenue estimates by $500 million a year.While Apple has continued to buy and deploy the latest Qualcomm chips, it also reached out to a rival chip maker, Intel, which began supplying an alternative to Qualcomm’s chip for the iPhone 7. (That phone, the iPhone 8 and the X may contain either a Qualcomm or an Intel chip.)Qualcomm claims that Apple has compromised the performance of Qualcomm-equipped handsets in order to mask their superiority over the Intel-equipped phones. (Both Intel and Apple have vehemently denied the claims.)Numerous lawsuits are now well underway in the United States, with some expected to go to trial later this year. Regulators in the European Union, Taiwan, South Korea and China have ruled that Qualcomm’s licensing practices are unlawful and have levied fines, decisions that Qualcomm is appealing. In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission is conducting its own investigation.While armies of patent lawyers fight over the rival claims, investors have already rendered a verdict. Qualcomm shares, after peaking at more than $80 in 2014, dropped by nearly 50 percent, hitting a low of $44 in 2016.Qualcomm’s precipitous decline is what attracted Mr. Dodson’s attention along with other so-called value investors, who look for stocks trading below their intrinsic value. He said his fund’s average cost per share for its Qualcomm position was about $56, so the fund was still ahead even after the deal collapsed this week. On Thursday, Qualcomm was trading at around $60.Still, Qualcomm’s performance has knocked the Endeavor fund from its perch at the top of the Morningstar rankings. So far this year, it’s 61st.Now that Mr. Trump has rescued Qualcomm from the imminent threat of a Broadcom takeover, its financial prospects — and share price — will largely follow the twists and turns in the Apple standoff. While Mr. Dodson remains optimistic about the outcome, that doesn’t mean he’s against all potential takeovers of Qualcomm.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 concertgoers were killed by a gunman using firearms outfitted with bump stocks, public pressure grew to ban them. Justice Department and A.T.F. officials privately stuck by their earlier conclusion that they could not outlaw bump stocks, but with little appetite to tackle gun policy in Congress, Mr. Sessions asked the A.T.F. to review its determination.Agencies periodically scrutinize earlier rulings and change interpretations. What set apart the bump stock evaluation, according to former bureau officials, was Mr. Trump’s overt political pressure.“No disrespect intended, but I’m sure President Trump has no idea what exactly the authority is for A.T.F. or the D.O.J. to ban these things,” said Bradley A. Buckles, who was the head of the bureau from 1999 to 2004. “In all honesty, he doesn’t know what his authority is in that regard.”And in altering its 2010 interpretation made under former President Barack Obama, the bureau could be subject to lawsuits that tie up a bump stock ban in the courts.“The Justice Department and the A.T.F. are going to get sued, and Trump is going to get flak,” said Josh Blackman, a professor at South Texas College of Law in Houston. “Obama was correct in his interpretation of the statute. If you want to ban bump stocks, it has to be done through Congress.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsIn the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a leading anti-abortion group, said the president’s directives amounted to taking “a monumental stand.”For someone who once described himself as “very pro-choice,” Mr. Trump’s transformation into a champion of the anti-abortion cause is a remarkable political evolution.Anti-abortion activists and Christian conservative leaders have remained one of his most loyal and deferential constituencies, even as he faced accusations that would have been the undoing of other politicians. This week, as the president brushed off allegations that his personal lawyer paid a pornographic-film actress with whom he was said to be involved with $130,000 in hush money, the religious right was full of praise for the president.“President Trump has never pretended to be a Bible-banging evangelical,” said Penny Young Nance, president of Concerned Women for America, a Christian conservative organization. “He is who he is. His policies speak for themselves.”Besides his executive orders, conservatives are celebrating one of the most ambitious efforts ever undertaken by a White House to reshape the federal judiciary.Mr. Trump has appointed judges to appellate courts at a rate faster than any new president since Richard M. Nixon, and the Republican-controlled Senate is working to speed the approval of Mr. Trump’s lower-level district court nominees. Abortion rights groups have objected to many of the nominees.Mr. Trump’s policies could have serious consequences for abortion providers like Planned Parenthood, which has become a target of the Trump administration and the Republican-controlled Congress.The new directive Mr. Trump issued on Friday could prove especially problematic. Planned Parenthood says that 60 percent of its patients receive Medicaid assistance. And the new rules would make it easier for states to bar Medicaid funding from going to the women’s health provider.“This is part of the Trump administration’s commitment to rolling back regulations the Obama administration put out to radically favor abortion,” said Charmaine Yoest, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services.Dawn Laguens, executive vice president for Planned Parenthood Action Fund, accused the Trump administration and Republicans of circumventing the legislative process. “They couldn’t get the votes to pass it in Congress, so now they are pushing states to try and block care,” she said. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.Once I reached the station, I learned that the next New Jersey Transit train wouldn’t arrive for 50 minutes. When I went to the enclosed (and presumably heated) waiting area, it was empty, and entry was barred by a guard at the door.A Port Authority official said the area was closed because of an unattended bag. Some time after I left, it reopened when a police dog certified in bomb detection determined the bag was harmless.A New Jersey Transit spokeswoman, Nancy Snyder, explained that weekend service from Newark Airport is “limited” because of Amtrak maintenance work. Only three trains run per hour, clustered within the first 20 minutes of the hour, she said, and I evidently missed the last of those.The number of New Jersey Transit trains is also constrained by tunnel capacity under the Hudson River. Although a new rail tunnel has been one of the country’s top infrastructure priorities for years, in January the Trump administration cast doubt on the federal government’s commitment to fund half the cost of the first phase of the project, estimated at $11 billion. (New York and New Jersey have pledged to pay the rest.)In 2010, of course, Mr. Christie famously canceled a project for a new Hudson River tunnel, citing cost overruns, a decision whose reverberations continue to be felt by New Jersey’s beleaguered commuters.The train, when it finally arrived, was packed. I found a seat, but other passengers were standing. Mr. Christie’s successor as governor, Phil Murphy, has called New Jersey Transit a “national disgrace” and has pledged better funding and improvements.Once we reached Penn Station, the escalator leading from the platform was broken, creating a logjam at the narrow stairways as passengers struggled with heavy luggage.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.“Federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution, no matter how horrendous the underlying attacks or morally compelling the plaintiffs’ claims,” Judge John G. Koeltl, who ordinarily sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan, wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for the solicitor general’s office, said the administration was committed to fighting terrorism.“The United States condemns acts of terror in the strongest terms, and the Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting those who commit terrorist attacks against innocent human beings to the fullest extent that the law allows,” she said in a statement. “The United States sympathizes deeply with the American families who, in 2004, sued the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization for acts of terrorism committed against their loved ones between 2002 and 2004.”“The court of appeals decided, however,” she said, “that the suit was not consistent with due process under the Constitution, and its decision does not meet the usual standards for Supreme Court review. We will continue to support wherever possible all lawful actions to fight terrorism and provide redress to the victims of terrorist attacks and their families.”When the Supreme Court asks the solicitor general for his or her views on whether to hear an appeal, as it does about 25 times each term, it presumably wants to know both whether the case warrants the justices’ attention and whether the party seeking review is right.Mr. Francisco gave only half an answer, taking no position on whether the appeals court’s decision was correct. According to Mr. Olson’s brief, “research revealed only one other instance since 2014 in which the solicitor general did not state a view on the merits” in similar circumstances.The two sides disagree about how many cases will be thwarted by the appeals court’s ruling. “It is far from clear that the court of appeals’ approach will foreclose many claims that would otherwise go forward in federal courts,” Mr. Francisco wrote for the administration.The entire House of Representatives and 23 senators disagreed. In briefs filed last April, they said the appeals court’s ruling had cut the heart out of the statute, effectively nullifying it.When a federal court strikes down parts of a federal law, the solicitor general typically defends the statute. In his brief, Mr. Olson, a former solicitor general, used unusually harsh words in criticizing the current one for taking a different approach.“The United States’ argument that this court should not address this issue is, to put it bluntly,” he wrote, “a blatant abdication of duty.”WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”Mr. Trump’s argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.Jimmy Carter endured significant political damage when his confidant and budget director, Bert Lance, was accused of banking irregularities. Even putting aside the Iran-contra scandal and the Monica S. Lewinsky affair, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton were besieged by investigations of their aides unrelated to them. In Reagan’s era, it became known as the “sleaze factor.” Mr. Clinton’s team drew the scrutiny of six independent counsels other than Kenneth W. Starr.In the current case, the targets so far have included not just a “coffee boy,” as Mr. Papadopoulos was described by an adviser to Mr. Trump, but the president’s top two campaign officials and national security adviser. While Mr. Trump has dismissed the relevance of allegations against Mr. Manafort because they involved business dealings before the campaign, the latest indictment claims that he was scheming to defraud banks while serving as Mr. Trump’s chairman.Moreover, it remains unclear why he volunteered to work for Mr. Trump’s campaign without pay at a time when he was experiencing significant financial pressure.Mr. Trump’s defenders have focused on questioning the original basis for the investigation, accusing the F.B.I. of misconduct in relying on an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy hired by investigators working for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”Much the same can be said about unemployment, which fell to 4.1 percent from 4.7 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year as president, and which also reflects the tight labor market conditions that have been developing for years. The unemployment rate fell much more during the Obama years (three full percentage points, from when Mr. Obama took office until when he left), which would be expected given the severe recession he inherited.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.WASHINGTON — President Trump asked the man he was considering as temporary F.B.I. director how he had voted in the 2016 presidential election, according to a person familiar with the discussion.The question was directed to Andrew G. McCabe, the bureau’s deputy director. Mr. Trump abruptly fired the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, in May, and at the time, the president openly discussed the need for any successor to be “loyal,” according to an adviser to the president.The week that Mr. Comey was fired, Mr. McCabe met with Mr. Trump a handful of times, a person familiar with the meetings said.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.“Federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution, no matter how horrendous the underlying attacks or morally compelling the plaintiffs’ claims,” Judge John G. Koeltl, who ordinarily sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan, wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for the solicitor general’s office, said the administration was committed to fighting terrorism.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.)He said the credit was “more important for other players who are much further away from the 200,000 United States sales mark.”WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.“Federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution, no matter how horrendous the underlying attacks or morally compelling the plaintiffs’ claims,” Judge John G. Koeltl, who ordinarily sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan, wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.Another reason to know your nenes is that, although rare in the wild, they often come up in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in Times crosswords 295 times since 1944.It appeared in the puzzle on March 12 with the clue “Hawaiian goose.” The word might also appear in easy puzzles with the clue “Hawaiian state bird” or “Hawaiian honker.”Later in the week, as the crosswords become harder, it might be referred to as “Aloha State bird,” “Endangered state bird,” “Lava geese,” “Bird so-called from its call” or “Gray-brown goose.”You can find out about the nene and other birds that appear regularly in our Crossword Aviary.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.Another reason to know your nenes is that, although rare in the wild, they often come up in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in Times crosswords 295 times since 1944.It appeared in the puzzle on March 12 with the clue “Hawaiian goose.” The word might also appear in easy puzzles with the clue “Hawaiian state bird” or “Hawaiian honker.”Later in the week, as the crosswords become harder, it might be referred to as “Aloha State bird,” “Endangered state bird,” “Lava geese,” “Bird so-called from its call” or “Gray-brown goose.”You can find out about the nene and other birds that appear regularly in our Crossword Aviary.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.Still, there are “a few” undervalued opportunities, Mr. Dodson said. He cited the health care sector: The biotech concern Gilead Sciences and the generic-drug maker Perrigo are two of his fund’s largest holdings. The toymaker Mattel “is on the bargain table,” he said. And even in technology, his fund has a large position in Qualcomm, currently fighting a takeover bid by the rival chip-maker Broadcom.If so much is indeed overvalued, then this year’s market could well reward discerning active managers. “I worry about the index funds,” Mr. Dodson said. “They’re getting close to 25 percent in technology, given the high valuations and market caps. If there’s a reversal, it’s going to hit the index funds hard. This may finally be the year that active managers outperform.”Mr. Stack agreed. “Active management isn’t about beating the market but about achieving market gains within a defined acceptance of risk,” he said. “There are selective opportunities, but you have to dig to find them. None are true bargains anymore.”He recently bought shares in the diversified industrial manufacturer Ingersoll Rand and is moving his portfolio toward more defensive positions in consumer staples, energy and materials. “I’d rather be early with portfolio defenses and leave some profits on the table than go into a bear market fully exposed,” he said.Mr. Stack said that in examining bull markets over the past 50 years, he had found that both the technology and energy sectors outperformed in the late stages of a bull market. He said investors “should have some portion of their portfolio in the materials sector, notably energy, which had been so out of favor” until mid-2017.In my outlook column last year, Damien Courvalin, head of energy research for Goldman Sachs’s Global Investment Research commodities team, was uncannily accurate in forecasting that oil prices would recover in 2017 and stabilize at $55 to $60 per barrel. (West Texas intermediate crude oil futures ended the year at $60.42.) So I asked him what his team was predicting this year.“From a total-return perspective, it’s quite compelling to be invested in commodities,” he said — even though he doesn’t see oil prices rising much above current levels by year’s end. That’s because, thanks to the shale oil revolution, producers outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries can easily ramp up production when prices are $60 to $65. But commodities investors can still make a profit, he said, by betting on stable to rising prices in the futures market. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.Another reason to know your nenes is that, although rare in the wild, they often come up in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in Times crosswords 295 times since 1944.It appeared in the puzzle on March 12 with the clue “Hawaiian goose.” The word might also appear in easy puzzles with the clue “Hawaiian state bird” or “Hawaiian honker.”WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.In particular, Republicans pointed to Andrew Weissmann, who served as F.B.I. general counsel under Mr. Mueller. Mr. Weissmann is a career prosecutor but, while in private law practice, donated thousands of dollars toward President Barack Obama’s election effort.In his Sunday morning Twitter blasts, Mr. Trump also renewed his attacks on James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, and Andrew G. McCabe, his former deputy, both of whom, like Mr. Mueller, are longtime Republicans. Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey last May, at first attributing the decision to the F.B.I. director’s handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server but later telling an interviewer that he had the Russia investigation in mind when he made the decision.Mr. Sessions, under intense public pressure from Mr. Trump, fired Mr. McCabe on Friday after an inspector general found that he had not been forthcoming about authorizing F.B.I. officials to provide information about the Clinton inquiry in 2016 to a reporter.“Wow, watch Comey lie under oath to Senator G when asked ‘have you ever been an anonymous source...or known someone else to be an anonymous source...?’” Mr. Trump wrote. “He said strongly ‘never, no.’ He lied as shown clearly on @foxandfriends.”Mr. Trump went on to dismiss reports that Mr. McCabe kept detailed memos of his time as deputy F.B.I. director, just as Mr. Comey did. Mr. McCabe left those memos with the F.B.I., which means Mr. Mueller’s team has access to them.“Spent very little time with Andrew McCabe, but he never took notes when he was with me,” Mr. Trump wrote. “I don’t believe he made memos except to help his own agenda, probably at a later date. Same with lying James Comey. Can we call them Fake Memos?”Michael R. Bromwich, Mr. McCabe’s lawyer, fired back by accusing the president of corrupting the law enforcement system. “We will not be responding to each childish, defamatory, disgusting & false tweet by the President,” he wrote on Twitter. “The whole truth will come out in due course. But the tweets confirm that he has corrupted the entire process that led to Mr. McCabe’s termination and has rendered it illegitimate.”In suggesting that Mr. Comey lied under oath to Congress, Mr. Trump appeared to refer to a comment by Mr. McCabe that the former director had authorized the news media interaction at the heart of the complaint against him. The president’s Republican allies picked up the point on Sunday and pressed for appointment of a prosecutor to look at the origin of the Russia investigation.“So we know that McCabe has lied” because the inspector general concluded he had not been fully candid, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House majority leader, said on Fox News. “Now he’s saying about Comey — Comey may have lied as well. So I don’t think this is the end of it. But that’s why we need a second special counsel.”Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”Much the same can be said about unemployment, which fell to 4.1 percent from 4.7 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year as president, and which also reflects the tight labor market conditions that have been developing for years. The unemployment rate fell much more during the Obama years (three full percentage points, from when Mr. Obama took office until when he left), which would be expected given the severe recession he inherited.In any event, it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s impact on the labor market. Economists generally agree that at least some of the Republican tax cuts will flow through to workers, although there are widely differing projections about how much, and most say the largest share will go to shareholders in the form of dividends, stock buybacks and higher share prices. Professor Slemrod said we may never know for sure, but “in five or six years we may be able to tell if some of the more extreme claims are reasonable.”It’s interesting what President Trump didn’t claim any credit for: low interest rates and inflation. Perhaps that’s because they’re moving upward, although slowly, and pose the biggest threat to the economic indicators he extolled. (On Wednesday the Federal Reserve kept its benchmark rate unchanged after raising it three times during the last year.)Unlike the 1986 tax legislation, which claimed to be revenue-neutral, the latest Republican bill is a huge tax cut. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new law would add just over $1 trillion to the deficit over the next decade. It predicted higher interest rates as a result, which it estimated would cost the Treasury an additional $66 billion in debt service costs.Some supporters of the tax law contend that economic growth will come so quickly that increased tax revenue will more than make up for the cuts. The actual impact on the deficit won’t be evident for at least a year, but the rising deficits that followed tax cuts in 1981 forced Republicans to raise taxes in both 1982 and 1984.Interest rates are already trending higher. Both Professors Auerbach and Slemrod agreed that rates are likely to rise further and would be an important measure of the impact of the tax legislation and Mr. Trump’s economic policies. If they rise faster than at the cautious pace the Federal Reserve has projected and investors expect, that could bring the stock market rally to an abrupt end. Higher-than-expected rates could also slow the economy, or even tip it into recession.How sensitive the stock market is to interest rates was on display the same day as Mr. Trump’s speech, when shares plunged on fears of higher rates after the 10-year Treasury yield rose above 2.7 percent; that’s still very low by historic standards, but higher than when Mr. Trump took office.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.Inspectors general at cabinet agencies are kept separate to preserve their independence. Paul Light, a New York University professor and specialist on the offices, recalled that President Ronald Reagan fired all of the inspectors general but was forced by Congress to rehire some of them. “They have protections in statutes against arbitrary dismissal,” he said.After Mr. Trump’s tweet, Mr. Horowitz, the inspector general, received support from Republicans, including Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee that confirmed him.“I have complete confidence in him and hope he is given the time, the resources and the independence to complete his work,” said Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight Committee.Several Republicans expressed dismay at the president’s continued campaign against Mr. Sessions. “It’s kind of mind-boggling that he would call out his own attorney general,” former Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah said on Fox News.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”Mr. Sessions’s standing with Mr. Trump has eroded in his year as attorney general. The president criticized his Senate confirmation performance and his decision to remove himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, even musing that he would not have hired Mr. Sessions had he anticipated the recusal. He berated him so severely over Mr. Mueller’s appointment that Mr. Sessions offered his resignation.That fraught relationship has impaired Mr. Sessions’s ability to act as a bulwark between his lawyers and politics, former career prosecutors said.“Sessions’s silence is evidence that Trump’s public neutering of anyone close to this investigation is working,” said Paul Pelletier, a Democratic candidate for Congress in Virginia who was a federal prosecutor for nearly three decades. “It is deleterious to the whole criminal justice process.”Mr. Pelletier said that although the attorneys general with whom he worked, from Edwin Meese III to Eric H. Holder Jr., clashed with their staff, they gave prosecutors and the institution itself unwavering public support.“Prosecutors and agents are extremely vulnerable if they’re not properly supported by leadership, especially when it comes to investigations and attacks launched on the political side,” said Daniel Petalas, a former prosecutor in the department’s public integrity section and the United States attorney’s office in Washington.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.Long-simmering tensions between Qualcomm and Apple reached a boiling point in 2016, when Qualcomm halted rebates it was giving Apple. Qualcomm claimed Apple had violated the terms of the rebate agreement by cooperating with South Korea’s investigation into what Samsung and others said was exclusionary conduct by Qualcomm. Apple responded by withholding the license fees it paid manufacturers of iPhones, who in turn stopped passing on the payments to Qualcomm.Lawsuits and counterclaims erupted, and Qualcomm reduced its revenue estimates by $500 million a year.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”Mr. Sessions’s standing with Mr. Trump has eroded in his year as attorney general. The president criticized his Senate confirmation performance and his decision to remove himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, even musing that he would not have hired Mr. Sessions had he anticipated the recusal. He berated him so severely over Mr. Mueller’s appointment that Mr. Sessions offered his resignation.That fraught relationship has impaired Mr. Sessions’s ability to act as a bulwark between his lawyers and politics, former career prosecutors said.“Sessions’s silence is evidence that Trump’s public neutering of anyone close to this investigation is working,” said Paul Pelletier, a Democratic candidate for Congress in Virginia who was a federal prosecutor for nearly three decades. “It is deleterious to the whole criminal justice process.”Mr. Pelletier said that although the attorneys general with whom he worked, from Edwin Meese III to Eric H. Holder Jr., clashed with their staff, they gave prosecutors and the institution itself unwavering public support.“Prosecutors and agents are extremely vulnerable if they’re not properly supported by leadership, especially when it comes to investigations and attacks launched on the political side,” said Daniel Petalas, a former prosecutor in the department’s public integrity section and the United States attorney’s office in Washington.The department is often involved in high-profile cases, sometimes with powerful people at the center who seek to discredit the investigations against them. “Prosecutors have to stand silently and cannot defend their work to the public,” Mr. Petalas said. “They can only hope that the leadership will serve as a bulwark.”Two current federal prosecutors who spoke on the condition of anonymity said they were working hard to maintain morale. They were heartened by reports of Mr. Wray standing up to Mr. Trump, and they remain optimistic that the institution can withstand political attacks, with or without Mr. Sessions’s public support.The silence from Mr. Sessions could have a more pernicious effect on the staff than the blow to morale, the officials say. The condemnations send the message that people can be persecuted for holding political beliefs at odds with those of the president.During a speech in Norfolk, Va., last month, Mr. Sessions said that he loved the department and that the “vast majority” of employees were patriotic and hard-working. But he also implied that it might be necessary to weed out “political bias and favoritism” from investigations and prosecutions.“We don’t see criticism from Congress as a bad thing,” Mr. Sessions said. “When they learn of a problem and start asking questions, that is a good thing.”With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Technology stocks in general “are way overvalued,” he said. He has cut back on his fund’s large positions in Micron Technologies, Apple and Applied Materials after they notched big gains. With benefit of hindsight, he wouldn’t have sold them, “but someone once asked Bernard Baruch how he became so rich,” Mr. Dodson said. “‘I made my money by selling too soon,’” the famed financier replied.Still, there are “a few” undervalued opportunities, Mr. Dodson said. He cited the health care sector: The biotech concern Gilead Sciences and the generic-drug maker Perrigo are two of his fund’s largest holdings. The toymaker Mattel “is on the bargain table,” he said. And even in technology, his fund has a large position in Qualcomm, currently fighting a takeover bid by the rival chip-maker Broadcom.If so much is indeed overvalued, then this year’s market could well reward discerning active managers. “I worry about the index funds,” Mr. Dodson said. “They’re getting close to 25 percent in technology, given the high valuations and market caps. If there’s a reversal, it’s going to hit the index funds hard. This may finally be the year that active managers outperform.”Mr. Stack agreed. “Active management isn’t about beating the market but about achieving market gains within a defined acceptance of risk,” he said. “There are selective opportunities, but you have to dig to find them. None are true bargains anymore.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administration’s justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called “an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congress’s role in passing immigration laws.”In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”WASHINGTON — Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director who was fired late Friday, kept contemporaneous memos about his interactions with President Trump and his conversations with the former director James B. Comey, a person close to Mr. McCabe said on Saturday.The memos could bolster the account of Mr. Comey, whose own memos and testimony describe repeated requests by Mr. Trump to clear his name. Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump also asked him to shut down a criminal investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Both matters are under investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is considering whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.Mr. McCabe’s memos were left at the F.B.I., which means that Mr. Mueller’s investigators have access to them as they work to corroborate Mr. Comey’s account. Mr. Trump has denied pressuring Mr. Comey to end the Flynn investigation. Mr. Comey was fired last spring, and the revelation of his conversations with Mr. Trump helped lead to the special counsel’s appointment.Mr. McCabe is known to have had at least three meetings with the president. In one, he asked Mr. McCabe how he had voted in the presidential election. In each, he asked about Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill, who ran a failed campaign as a Democrat for the Virginia State Senate. Mr. McCabe has identified as a lifelong Republican but did not vote in the 2016 presidential race.The existence of his memos was first reported by The Associated Press.Mr. McCabe was fired less than two days before his retirement. Attorney General Jeff Sessions cited what he said was a lack of candor by Mr. McCabe in interviews with internal investigators. His firing had been recommended by career disciplinary officials at the F.B.I.Mr. McCabe immediately declared that his firing was part of a Trump administration effort to discredit him and damage the special counsel’s investigation. In an interview, he said he had not made false statements. “This is part of an effort to discredit me as a witness,” he said.He was among the first F.B.I. officials to scrutinize possible Trump campaign ties to Russia. Mr. Trump has taunted Mr. McCabe both publicly and privately, and Republican allies of the president have cast Mr. McCabe as the center of a “deep state” effort to undermine the Trump presidency.His lawyer, Michael R. Bromwich, said Justice Department officials had rushed to fire Mr. McCabe before he could qualify for his pension. “This distortion of the process begins at the very top, with the president’s repeated offensive, drive-by Twitter attacks on Mr. McCabe,” Mr. Bromwich said late Friday.Mr. Trump kept up his Twitter barrage on Saturday, pointing to hundreds of thousands of dollars in donations to Ms. McCabe’s campaign from a political committee run by Terry McAuliffe, the former Virginia governor and a longtime ally of the Clintons.The president’s personal lawyer seemed to lend credence Saturday to the idea that Mr. McCabe and Mr. Mueller were linked in the eyes of the president. Asked by The Daily Beast for a response to Mr. McCabe’s firing, the lawyer, John Dowd, sent an email saying it was now time that the special counsel investigation be shut down.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.He cited what have become known as the “chicken wars” of the early 1960s, a trade dispute set off when Germany and France imposed tariffs on American chicken. The United States retaliated by imposing tariffs on an array of goods, including French brandy, light trucks and Volkswagen buses. The United States even threatened to reduce its troop presence in Europe. Despite those pressures, the newly formed European Economic Community did not back down, and in that sense the United States “lost” the war.The biggest losers, though, were American and European consumers deprived of choices in the marketplace and forced to pay higher prices for what was available.There were also unintended consequences. American automakers, insulated from foreign competition by the tariffs, failed to modernize, improve quality or reduce costs, setting the stage for a decades-long decline, which for Chrysler and General Motors ended in bankruptcy.Much the same can be said of the United States steel industry, which since World War II has probably received more protection from tariffs and quotas than any other industry. “They just used the protection to raise prices, fatten profits, pay their executives more and avoid automating and reducing costs,” Professor Conybeare said. “They didn’t use the breathing space they gained to modernize. So much of the U.S. steel industry is using obsolete technology, which is why they can’t compete.”Decades of tariff protection have done little to stem the industry’s decline. Domestic steel employment dropped from 135,000 in 2000 to 83,600 in 2016, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.Much like Mr. Trump, President George W. Bush veered from Republican free trade orthodoxy in 2002 when he imposed tariffs of up to 30 percent on certain steel products to counter what he claimed was a surge of imports (Canada, Mexico and a number of developing countries were exempted). Although the tariffs were loudly condemned by many Republicans, politicians from steel-producing states supported the move and protectionist Democrats like Representative Richard Gephardt of Missouri argued that the measures did not go far enough.The European Union filed charges with the World Trade Organization, which ruled that the tariffs were illegal and discriminatory and authorized up to $2 billion in retaliatory measures. The E.U. threatened tariffs on a variety of American products, including autos and Florida oranges.Mr. Bush abandoned the tariffs in December 2003. He claimed that they had served their purpose, but subsequent studies suggested that they had little impact on employment in the industry and led to a loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs in industries that use steel as a raw material.Mr. Trump’s pronouncements on trade this week “sound like a very archaic, 19th-century argument,” Professor Palen said, referring to a time when protectionism was Republican orthodoxy and Representative William McKinley of Ohio, who later became president, was successfully promoting his Tariff Act of 1890, which raised the average duty on imports to nearly 50 percent.The act is widely considered by historians to have been a disaster that led to higher consumer prices and inflation and provoked a voter backlash. Republicans lost their House majority in 1890 and lost the White House and both houses of Congress in 1892. The act was repealed in 1894.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.In January, California won a major victory, persuading a judge to block the Trump administration’s efforts to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation. The Supreme Court turned down a hail-Mary appeal from the administration in February, and the case will now make its way up the court system in the usual way.Mr. Trump ended the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, last September, calling it an unconstitutional use of executive power by his predecessor and reviving the threat of deportation for immigrants who had been brought to the United States illegally as young children.But Judge William H. Alsup ordered the administration to maintain major pieces of the program while legal challenges move forward, notably by requiring the administration to allow people enrolled in it to renew their protected status. The administration has not sought a stay of that injunction.Judge Alsup ruled that the administration had abused its discretion and had acted arbitrarily and capriciously in rescinding the program. He acknowledged that presidents have broad powers to alter the policies of earlier administrations, but said the Trump administration’s justifications for rescinding the program did not withstand scrutiny.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Sessions expressed incredulity that the administration should not be able to rescind what he called “an unlawful policy intended to usurp Congress’s role in passing immigration laws.”The Ninth Circuit is set to hear arguments in the case in May, and the state’s chances of winning in that court are good. But the Supreme Court may well hear an appeal, and there the state could face headwinds.The next major court fight between California and the Trump administration may involve greenhouse gas emissions.The state has a waiver under the Clean Air Act that allows it to enforce stronger air pollution standards than those set by the federal government.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.Long-simmering tensions between Qualcomm and Apple reached a boiling point in 2016, when Qualcomm halted rebates it was giving Apple. Qualcomm claimed Apple had violated the terms of the rebate agreement by cooperating with South Korea’s investigation into what Samsung and others said was exclusionary conduct by Qualcomm. Apple responded by withholding the license fees it paid manufacturers of iPhones, who in turn stopped passing on the payments to Qualcomm.Lawsuits and counterclaims erupted, and Qualcomm reduced its revenue estimates by $500 million a year.While Apple has continued to buy and deploy the latest Qualcomm chips, it also reached out to a rival chip maker, Intel, which began supplying an alternative to Qualcomm’s chip for the iPhone 7. (That phone, the iPhone 8 and the X may contain either a Qualcomm or an Intel chip.)Qualcomm claims that Apple has compromised the performance of Qualcomm-equipped handsets in order to mask their superiority over the Intel-equipped phones. (Both Intel and Apple have vehemently denied the claims.)Numerous lawsuits are now well underway in the United States, with some expected to go to trial later this year. Regulators in the European Union, Taiwan, South Korea and China have ruled that Qualcomm’s licensing practices are unlawful and have levied fines, decisions that Qualcomm is appealing. In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission is conducting its own investigation.While armies of patent lawyers fight over the rival claims, investors have already rendered a verdict. Qualcomm shares, after peaking at more than $80 in 2014, dropped by nearly 50 percent, hitting a low of $44 in 2016.Qualcomm’s precipitous decline is what attracted Mr. Dodson’s attention along with other so-called value investors, who look for stocks trading below their intrinsic value. He said his fund’s average cost per share for its Qualcomm position was about $56, so the fund was still ahead even after the deal collapsed this week. On Thursday, Qualcomm was trading at around $60.Still, Qualcomm’s performance has knocked the Endeavor fund from its perch at the top of the Morningstar rankings. So far this year, it’s 61st.Now that Mr. Trump has rescued Qualcomm from the imminent threat of a Broadcom takeover, its financial prospects — and share price — will largely follow the twists and turns in the Apple standoff. While Mr. Dodson remains optimistic about the outcome, that doesn’t mean he’s against all potential takeovers of Qualcomm.Last week, there were rumors that Intel might launch a bid for Broadcom, which made Mr. Dodson wonder: “Why doesn’t it bid for Qualcomm? If Intel bought it, Qualcomm would be in good hands.”“As a citizen, I’d be very comfortable with that,” he said.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.But Mr. Trump passed over Mr. Cohn for the post of Federal Reserve chairman. In late December Mr. Cohn told the news site Axios he would still be in the administration three months hence. Earlier this month the time frame seemed to have shrunk. Asked how long he would stay at the White House, Mr. Cohn said only, “I’m here today and I’m here next week.”Professor Smith of N.Y.U. said he hoped Mr. Cohn would leave soon “because his reputation will be mangled if he stays.”“He delivered the tax legislation,” he said. “Whether you agree with it or not, he executed. That’s his skill. And he stood up to the president after Charlottesville. People respect that. I think he could leave now with his reputation intact.”Alone among the prominent Goldman alumni in the administration, Mr. Mnuchin seems likely to stay. “He’s been a good and loyal employee,” Professor Smith said. “But he’s more of a Hollywood person now. His reputation in the professional financial sector may not matter that much to him.”(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).Of the 20 finalist cities, Indianapolis has the least traffic congestion and the lowest average home prices, according to the Chamber of Commerce. That’s not to say there aren’t high-end options: A 21,000-square-foot, six-bedroom 1930s-era mansion, currently home to the Indiana University chancellor, is on the market for just under $7 million. (It might be perfect for the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos.)For all its virtues, Indianapolis faces a number of hurdles. While Mr. Stutz told me that Salesforce had found an abundance of homegrown tech talent there, Amazon knows it will need to import many of the high-level software engineers and employees who will form the core of the work force at its second headquarters. That may be a challenge.Unlike Amazon’s home state of Washington, Indiana reliably votes Republican in presidential elections, though it went for Barack Obama over John McCain in 2008. Donald J. Trump carried the state overwhelmingly in 2016, and Mike Pence, an Indiana native and self-described religious conservative, served as Indiana’s governor before becoming Mr. Trump’s vice president.A strong streak of social conservatism runs through the state (though not so much in Indianapolis), and this week the state legislature was roiled by a new round in the culture wars as legislators debated whether to pass a hate-crimes bill to protect victims of bias based on race, religion, sex, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation. Indiana is one of only five states without such legislation.Partly as a result of pressure from Salesforce, other companies and the N.C.A.A., Mr. Pence, when he was governor, amended a so-called Religious Freedom Restoration Act in 2015 that had allowed business owners to discriminate against gays and lesbians on the grounds of religious principle.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.In particular, Republicans pointed to Andrew Weissmann, who served as F.B.I. general counsel under Mr. Mueller. Mr. Weissmann is a career prosecutor but, while in private law practice, donated thousands of dollars toward President Barack Obama’s election effort.In his Sunday morning Twitter blasts, Mr. Trump also renewed his attacks on James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, and Andrew G. McCabe, his former deputy, both of whom, like Mr. Mueller, are longtime Republicans. Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey last May, at first attributing the decision to the F.B.I. director’s handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server but later telling an interviewer that he had the Russia investigation in mind when he made the decision.Mr. Sessions, under intense public pressure from Mr. Trump, fired Mr. McCabe on Friday after an inspector general found that he had not been forthcoming about authorizing F.B.I. officials to provide information about the Clinton inquiry in 2016 to a reporter.“Wow, watch Comey lie under oath to Senator G when asked ‘have you ever been an anonymous source...or known someone else to be an anonymous source...?’” Mr. Trump wrote. “He said strongly ‘never, no.’ He lied as shown clearly on @foxandfriends.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. “We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are — or have been — what makes us a people.”Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the “whatever-it-takes-to-win politics” that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.There are several ways to revive the common good, Reich suggests. One is to recover the notion of leadership as trusteeship. Corporate executives should recognize responsibilities beyond maximizing profits, and public officials should resist the scorched-earth, anything-goes approach to politics. The essence of Trump’s failure as a leader, according to Reich, is “not that he has chosen one set of policies over another, or has divided rather than united Americans, or even that he has behaved in childish and vindictive ways unbecoming a president. It is that he has sacrificed the processes and institutions of American democracy to achieve his goals.”Reich also calls for a greater emphasis on civic education, including two years of mandatory public service, and efforts to resurrect truth from the miasma of political deceit and fake news. Perhaps the most distinctive measure Reich proposes is the redeployment of honor and shame. Rather than honor people for their wealth or celebrity, we should honor those who display genuine virtue, like whistle-blowers, firefighters, social workers and soldiers — people who perform hard or risky tasks that serve the common good. And we should shame those who, however wealthy, achieve their status through exploitative business practices or morally dubious financial dealings.Interestingly, in developing this theme, Reich favorably cites so-called “virtue conservatives” of the 1980s and 1990s. For example, he quotes William J. Bennett, the education secretary in the Reagan administration, who warned that “nonjudgmentalism … has permeated our culture, encouraging a paralysis of the moral faculty.” He also cites the conservative political scientist James Q. Wilson, who argued that neglecting broken windows in poor communities conveys a message of moral license, leading to an unraveling of social restraints and increased crime. Reich contends that people who get rich by exploiting norms of social trust — by evading taxes, say, or devising barely legal schemes of financial trickery — generate a similar unraveling.Against the grain of much liberal thinking, Reich acknowledges that promoting civic virtue requires being judgmental about what moral attitudes and qualities of character our public life should affirm and promote. This recognition of the role of moral judgment in politics is an important corrective to the liberal wariness of bringing morality into the public square.Reich’s proposals would make a good starting point for a new progressive political project. What is puzzling, however, is his insistence that a politics of the common good can or should be nonpartisan. Time and again, he draws a sharp distinction between the common good he wants to revive and the competing conceptions of the common good at stake in everyday political debate — about tax policy, health care, the environment and so on. He insists his book is not about what messages Democrats or Republicans should convey or what policies they should pursue, but rather about restoring our shared commitment to democratic norms and principles. “It’s our agreement to these principles that connects us, not agreement about where these principles lead.”Reich seems to believe that the common good describes ground rules for a decent society, not the policies and purposes that citizens should pursue within these ground rules. But is it really possible to separate the two? Is the debate over how vigorously to regulate Wall Street about the ground rules of democracy or a policy on which Democrats and Republicans may reasonably disagree? Or consider immigration. Reich argues that the common good is “not about securing borders, erecting walls and keeping others out …. To the contrary, the common good is about inclusion — joining together to achieve common goals.” But inclusion of whom — existing citizens of the country, Dreamers, other immigrants who hope to be admitted? Partisans on all sides of this raging debate invoke competing conceptions of the common good to support their position.As these examples suggest, the nonpartisan, above-the-fray conception of the common good that Reich proposes may be too high-minded to reinvigorate American public discourse in the way he wants. In the face of President Trump’s serial violations of democratic norms, it is tempting to appeal to Americans, whatever their party or political persuasion, to reaffirm certain principles that all can share. But such principles, if truly detached from debate about where they lead, are so abstract that they can only serve as hortatory fare for commencement addresses and the Fourth of July. The best hope for reviving the common good is to invigorate moral argument in the messy, contentious domain of democratic politics.In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 concertgoers were killed by a gunman using firearms outfitted with bump stocks, public pressure grew to ban them. Justice Department and A.T.F. officials privately stuck by their earlier conclusion that they could not outlaw bump stocks, but with little appetite to tackle gun policy in Congress, Mr. Sessions asked the A.T.F. to review its determination.Agencies periodically scrutinize earlier rulings and change interpretations. What set apart the bump stock evaluation, according to former bureau officials, was Mr. Trump’s overt political pressure.“No disrespect intended, but I’m sure President Trump has no idea what exactly the authority is for A.T.F. or the D.O.J. to ban these things,” said Bradley A. Buckles, who was the head of the bureau from 1999 to 2004. “In all honesty, he doesn’t know what his authority is in that regard.”And in altering its 2010 interpretation made under former President Barack Obama, the bureau could be subject to lawsuits that tie up a bump stock ban in the courts.“The Justice Department and the A.T.F. are going to get sued, and Trump is going to get flak,” said Josh Blackman, a professor at South Texas College of Law in Houston. “Obama was correct in his interpretation of the statute. If you want to ban bump stocks, it has to be done through Congress.”The apparent reversal on bump stocks appears to be more political than legal, said Rick Vasquez, a former A.T.F. official who supervised the bureau’s prior determination on bump stocks.“They’re basically playing games with the regulations and the law right now just to make a political statement,” he said.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.He cited what have become known as the “chicken wars” of the early 1960s, a trade dispute set off when Germany and France imposed tariffs on American chicken. The United States retaliated by imposing tariffs on an array of goods, including French brandy, light trucks and Volkswagen buses. The United States even threatened to reduce its troop presence in Europe. Despite those pressures, the newly formed European Economic Community did not back down, and in that sense the United States “lost” the war.The biggest losers, though, were American and European consumers deprived of choices in the marketplace and forced to pay higher prices for what was available.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.In particular, Republicans pointed to Andrew Weissmann, who served as F.B.I. general counsel under Mr. Mueller. Mr. Weissmann is a career prosecutor but, while in private law practice, donated thousands of dollars toward President Barack Obama’s election effort.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.So the $7,500 credit “as a percentage of the purchase price is relatively lower for Tesla than for the makers of other E.V.s in the market,” such as the Chevrolet Bolt and Nissan Leaf, Mr. Jonas said. (The Bolt costs $37,500, and prices for the Leaf start at just under $31,000.)He said the credit was “more important for other players who are much further away from the 200,000 United States sales mark.”In theory, the problem shouldn’t be difficult for Congress to fix. One approach would be to lift the 200,000 vehicle cap and continue the credit indefinitely, a move that would most likely be welcomed by makers and consumers of electric vehicles and has the support of green energy lobbying groups. But the price tag for the government could become prohibitive if electric car sales surge.Or Congress could phase out the incentives beginning at a target date that would apply to all manufacturers, or after total industry sales hit a level that suggests a move to electric vehicles is sustainable. Depending on the time or level of sales chosen, that could address concerns about the impact of the tax credit on the deficit.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”Mr. Trump’s argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.Jimmy Carter endured significant political damage when his confidant and budget director, Bert Lance, was accused of banking irregularities. Even putting aside the Iran-contra scandal and the Monica S. Lewinsky affair, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton were besieged by investigations of their aides unrelated to them. In Reagan’s era, it became known as the “sleaze factor.” Mr. Clinton’s team drew the scrutiny of six independent counsels other than Kenneth W. Starr.In the current case, the targets so far have included not just a “coffee boy,” as Mr. Papadopoulos was described by an adviser to Mr. Trump, but the president’s top two campaign officials and national security adviser. While Mr. Trump has dismissed the relevance of allegations against Mr. Manafort because they involved business dealings before the campaign, the latest indictment claims that he was scheming to defraud banks while serving as Mr. Trump’s chairman.Moreover, it remains unclear why he volunteered to work for Mr. Trump’s campaign without pay at a time when he was experiencing significant financial pressure.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.Another reason to know your nenes is that, although rare in the wild, they often come up in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in Times crosswords 295 times since 1944.It appeared in the puzzle on March 12 with the clue “Hawaiian goose.” The word might also appear in easy puzzles with the clue “Hawaiian state bird” or “Hawaiian honker.”Later in the week, as the crosswords become harder, it might be referred to as “Aloha State bird,” “Endangered state bird,” “Lava geese,” “Bird so-called from its call” or “Gray-brown goose.”You can find out about the nene and other birds that appear regularly in our Crossword Aviary.Deb Amlen contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”Much the same can be said about unemployment, which fell to 4.1 percent from 4.7 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year as president, and which also reflects the tight labor market conditions that have been developing for years. The unemployment rate fell much more during the Obama years (three full percentage points, from when Mr. Obama took office until when he left), which would be expected given the severe recession he inherited.In any event, it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s impact on the labor market. Economists generally agree that at least some of the Republican tax cuts will flow through to workers, although there are widely differing projections about how much, and most say the largest share will go to shareholders in the form of dividends, stock buybacks and higher share prices. Professor Slemrod said we may never know for sure, but “in five or six years we may be able to tell if some of the more extreme claims are reasonable.”It’s interesting what President Trump didn’t claim any credit for: low interest rates and inflation. Perhaps that’s because they’re moving upward, although slowly, and pose the biggest threat to the economic indicators he extolled. (On Wednesday the Federal Reserve kept its benchmark rate unchanged after raising it three times during the last year.)Unlike the 1986 tax legislation, which claimed to be revenue-neutral, the latest Republican bill is a huge tax cut. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new law would add just over $1 trillion to the deficit over the next decade. It predicted higher interest rates as a result, which it estimated would cost the Treasury an additional $66 billion in debt service costs.House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)Mr. Jonas, in a note to Morgan Stanley clients, agreed that the provision would help foreign rivals, but may not have much impact on Tesla. Tesla’s high-end S and X models sell on average for close to $100,000, and the average price for its mass-market 3 model is expected to be about $50,000.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 concertgoers were killed by a gunman using firearms outfitted with bump stocks, public pressure grew to ban them. Justice Department and A.T.F. officials privately stuck by their earlier conclusion that they could not outlaw bump stocks, but with little appetite to tackle gun policy in Congress, Mr. Sessions asked the A.T.F. to review its determination.Agencies periodically scrutinize earlier rulings and change interpretations. What set apart the bump stock evaluation, according to former bureau officials, was Mr. Trump’s overt political pressure.“No disrespect intended, but I’m sure President Trump has no idea what exactly the authority is for A.T.F. or the D.O.J. to ban these things,” said Bradley A. Buckles, who was the head of the bureau from 1999 to 2004. “In all honesty, he doesn’t know what his authority is in that regard.”And in altering its 2010 interpretation made under former President Barack Obama, the bureau could be subject to lawsuits that tie up a bump stock ban in the courts.“The Justice Department and the A.T.F. are going to get sued, and Trump is going to get flak,” said Josh Blackman, a professor at South Texas College of Law in Houston. “Obama was correct in his interpretation of the statute. If you want to ban bump stocks, it has to be done through Congress.”The apparent reversal on bump stocks appears to be more political than legal, said Rick Vasquez, a former A.T.F. official who supervised the bureau’s prior determination on bump stocks.“They’re basically playing games with the regulations and the law right now just to make a political statement,” he said.Other presidents have also influenced Justice Department rule making to help their preferred policies come into fruition, then watched as those rules became fodder for lawsuits. Under Mr. Obama, the Justice Department created the legal underpinnings to protect undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children after Congress failed to address the issue. That program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, was the subject of multiple lawsuits.If bump stock bans are approved, as expected, questions remain on how the rule will be enforced, including whether it will apply to purchases before a ban would be instituted.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.Another reason to know your nenes is that, although rare in the wild, they often come up in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in Times crosswords 295 times since 1944.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.But Mr. Trump passed over Mr. Cohn for the post of Federal Reserve chairman. In late December Mr. Cohn told the news site Axios he would still be in the administration three months hence. Earlier this month the time frame seemed to have shrunk. Asked how long he would stay at the White House, Mr. Cohn said only, “I’m here today and I’m here next week.”Professor Smith of N.Y.U. said he hoped Mr. Cohn would leave soon “because his reputation will be mangled if he stays.”“He delivered the tax legislation,” he said. “Whether you agree with it or not, he executed. That’s his skill. And he stood up to the president after Charlottesville. People respect that. I think he could leave now with his reputation intact.”Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added.Improving Newark and the rest of America’s airports needn’t add to the federal deficit. Airports can fund capital improvements by levying fees on passengers and airlines. Airlines typically oppose that, and federal law currently caps such fees, known as passenger facility charges. Efforts to raise the cap, which hasn’t been increased in 15 years, have gone nowhere in Congress.“It makes no sense that the fees would be the same for Des Moines and Newark, given their vastly different mass transit needs,” said Mr. Wright.After a 10-minute walk in Terminal A, I boarded the AirTrain for what is supposed to be an 11-minute trip to the Newark Airport train station. That seemed ample time to make the next New Jersey Transit train to Manhattan, due in 20 minutes.Nothing about the AirTrain inspires confidence. It moved along the monorail at what felt like a snail’s pace, shuddering at every curve. Twice it inexplicably stopped for extended periods. During the second of these stops, within sight of our destination, I watched in frustration as my train to Manhattan came and went.Complaints about the AirTrain have been mounting for years, and the Port Authority has conceded it’s “unreliable.” It has been periodically shut down for repairs, and passengers have had to be evacuated after being stuck on board.Though the AirTrain is less than 25 years old, and cost $769 million ($1.3 billion adjusted for inflation) to build, the Port Authority concluded it must be demolished and replaced. The current capital plan calls for $385 million in repairs to the existing AirTrain, and $40 million for planning its replacement, but doesn’t include the cost of the new train system. The planning proposal anticipates “substantial completion” in 2022, though that seems overly ambitious.Once I reached the station, I learned that the next New Jersey Transit train wouldn’t arrive for 50 minutes. When I went to the enclosed (and presumably heated) waiting area, it was empty, and entry was barred by a guard at the door.A Port Authority official said the area was closed because of an unattended bag. Some time after I left, it reopened when a police dog certified in bomb detection determined the bag was harmless.A New Jersey Transit spokeswoman, Nancy Snyder, explained that weekend service from Newark Airport is “limited” because of Amtrak maintenance work. Only three trains run per hour, clustered within the first 20 minutes of the hour, she said, and I evidently missed the last of those.The number of New Jersey Transit trains is also constrained by tunnel capacity under the Hudson River. Although a new rail tunnel has been one of the country’s top infrastructure priorities for years, in January the Trump administration cast doubt on the federal government’s commitment to fund half the cost of the first phase of the project, estimated at $11 billion. (New York and New Jersey have pledged to pay the rest.)In 2010, of course, Mr. Christie famously canceled a project for a new Hudson River tunnel, citing cost overruns, a decision whose reverberations continue to be felt by New Jersey’s beleaguered commuters.The train, when it finally arrived, was packed. I found a seat, but other passengers were standing. Mr. Christie’s successor as governor, Phil Murphy, has called New Jersey Transit a “national disgrace” and has pledged better funding and improvements.Once we reached Penn Station, the escalator leading from the platform was broken, creating a logjam at the narrow stairways as passengers struggled with heavy luggage.Ms. Snyder said that New Jersey Transit maintains nine escalators on the Seventh Avenue side of Penn Station and that, as of this week, all were functioning. But she recommended passengers use the Eighth Avenue side of the station, which offers better access to and from platforms.After I passed through Penn Station (no further comment needed) the final indignity was a broken escalator leading to Seventh Avenue, which is Amtrak’s responsibility. The 39 escalators in Penn Station maintained by Amtrak, many of them dating to the 1960s, are notorious for malfunctioning. They can take months to repair, as The Wall Street Journal reported in 2015.Last year, referring to commuters’ “summer of agony,” Mr. Cuomo said conditions at Penn Station had become “intolerable” and sent a letter to the White House asking Mr. Trump for emergency funding. The governor also called for removing the station from cash-starved Amtrak’s jurisdiction as part of a “long-term solution.”Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.Long-simmering tensions between Qualcomm and Apple reached a boiling point in 2016, when Qualcomm halted rebates it was giving Apple. Qualcomm claimed Apple had violated the terms of the rebate agreement by cooperating with South Korea’s investigation into what Samsung and others said was exclusionary conduct by Qualcomm. Apple responded by withholding the license fees it paid manufacturers of iPhones, who in turn stopped passing on the payments to Qualcomm.Lawsuits and counterclaims erupted, and Qualcomm reduced its revenue estimates by $500 million a year.While Apple has continued to buy and deploy the latest Qualcomm chips, it also reached out to a rival chip maker, Intel, which began supplying an alternative to Qualcomm’s chip for the iPhone 7. (That phone, the iPhone 8 and the X may contain either a Qualcomm or an Intel chip.)Qualcomm claims that Apple has compromised the performance of Qualcomm-equipped handsets in order to mask their superiority over the Intel-equipped phones. (Both Intel and Apple have vehemently denied the claims.)Numerous lawsuits are now well underway in the United States, with some expected to go to trial later this year. Regulators in the European Union, Taiwan, South Korea and China have ruled that Qualcomm’s licensing practices are unlawful and have levied fines, decisions that Qualcomm is appealing. In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission is conducting its own investigation.While armies of patent lawyers fight over the rival claims, investors have already rendered a verdict. Qualcomm shares, after peaking at more than $80 in 2014, dropped by nearly 50 percent, hitting a low of $44 in 2016.Qualcomm’s precipitous decline is what attracted Mr. Dodson’s attention along with other so-called value investors, who look for stocks trading below their intrinsic value. He said his fund’s average cost per share for its Qualcomm position was about $56, so the fund was still ahead even after the deal collapsed this week. On Thursday, Qualcomm was trading at around $60.Still, Qualcomm’s performance has knocked the Endeavor fund from its perch at the top of the Morningstar rankings. So far this year, it’s 61st.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.California’s lawsuit said that adding a question on citizenship would depress participation and hurt communities with a high proportion of unauthorized immigrants. It said it has more to lose than any other state, as it has more foreign-born residents and noncitizens than any other.The administration said the citizenship information was needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act of 1965, but critics said that has not otherwise been a priority.In 2016, the Supreme Court ruled that states may count all residents, whether or not they are eligible to vote, in drawing election districts. That is the method currently used by every state. Some conservative groups say only eligible voters should be considered in drawing districts.Counting all people amplifies the voting power of places that have large numbers of residents who cannot vote legally — including immigrants who are here legally but are not citizens, unauthorized immigrants and children. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.The Supreme Court did not decide whether other methods of counting were permissible. Many political scientists say that the available information is not sufficient to count only eligible voters, and the new census question may have been added in part to gather such information.The state’s lawsuit has a decent chance of success. The decision to alter the census form was sudden and consequential, and courts may be reluctant to allow such a drastic change.Last year, California sued the administration over its plans to deny federal funding to so-called sanctuary cities unless they begin cooperating with federal immigration agents.“The Trump administration cannot manipulate federal grant fund requirements to pressure states, counties or municipalities to enforce federal immigration laws,” Mr. Becerra said at the time.A Justice Department spokesman responded that the state was putting the welfare of unauthorized immigrants ahead of public safety.The state lost a round in the case in March, when Judge William H. Orrick of the Federal District Court in San Francisco declined to issue a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick, noting that courts around the nation had come to varying conclusions in similar suits, said “the issues in this case will benefit from further development.”Professor Somin has written that attaching conditions to federal grants can be at odds with federalism.“Some conservatives may cheer when the current administration uses this tool against sanctuary cities,” he wrote. “But they are likely to regret their enthusiasm if a liberal Democratic president uses the same tactic to force states to increase gun control, adopt a ‘common core’ curriculum or pursue liberal policies on transgender bathroom accommodations.”It is hard to say whether the state will prevail in its suit, as much depends on how, when and why the federal government denies funding. But there is little question that some denials can give rise to constitutional problems.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”Much the same can be said about unemployment, which fell to 4.1 percent from 4.7 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year as president, and which also reflects the tight labor market conditions that have been developing for years. The unemployment rate fell much more during the Obama years (three full percentage points, from when Mr. Obama took office until when he left), which would be expected given the severe recession he inherited.In any event, it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s impact on the labor market. Economists generally agree that at least some of the Republican tax cuts will flow through to workers, although there are widely differing projections about how much, and most say the largest share will go to shareholders in the form of dividends, stock buybacks and higher share prices. Professor Slemrod said we may never know for sure, but “in five or six years we may be able to tell if some of the more extreme claims are reasonable.”It’s interesting what President Trump didn’t claim any credit for: low interest rates and inflation. Perhaps that’s because they’re moving upward, although slowly, and pose the biggest threat to the economic indicators he extolled. (On Wednesday the Federal Reserve kept its benchmark rate unchanged after raising it three times during the last year.)Unlike the 1986 tax legislation, which claimed to be revenue-neutral, the latest Republican bill is a huge tax cut. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new law would add just over $1 trillion to the deficit over the next decade. It predicted higher interest rates as a result, which it estimated would cost the Treasury an additional $66 billion in debt service costs.Some supporters of the tax law contend that economic growth will come so quickly that increased tax revenue will more than make up for the cuts. The actual impact on the deficit won’t be evident for at least a year, but the rising deficits that followed tax cuts in 1981 forced Republicans to raise taxes in both 1982 and 1984.WASHINGTON — The meeting, to say the least, had not gone well. Upset at a presidential dressing down, Attorney General Jeff Sessions had just left the White House vowing to resign. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, raced out of the building, found him in his car, banged on the door and implored him to come back inside.The dramatic episode, described by Mr. Priebus in a soon-to-be-released book, proved a turning point in the relationship between President Trump and his attorney general, one that has shaped the administration ever since. More than any president in modern times, Mr. Trump has engaged in a high stakes public conflict with the Justice Department with extensive potential consequences.Mr. Priebus’s account comes in a new chapter included in the paperback edition of “The Gatekeepers: How the White House Chiefs of Staff Define Every Presidency,” by Chris Whipple, to be published on March 6 by Broadway Books. In interviews with the author, Mr. Priebus gave the first extended description of his tumultuous six months as Mr. Trump’s top aide. Vanity Fair posted an excerpt from the new chapter on Wednesday.Mr. Priebus described a roller-coaster experience trying to impose discipline on one of the most undisciplined figures in American politics, a period that led to his unhappy departure last summer when Mr. Trump unceremoniously announced his resignation on Twitter just before Mr. Priebus disembarked Air Force One in the rain.From rushing out ill-prepared executive orders to arguing over the president’s Twitter fixation, Mr. Priebus struggled as none of his predecessors had before in a job that is historically among the toughest in Washington. “Take everything you’ve heard and multiply it by 50,” he said. Working for Mr. Trump, he added, was “like riding the strongest and most independent horse.” But he expressed admiration for Mr. Trump’s toughness and allowed that perhaps the president was right about Twitter.The meeting that nearly led to Mr. Sessions’s resignation came last May shortly after the president fired James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director who was heading an investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and any cooperation with Mr. Trump’s campaign. The dismissal of Mr. Comey, which Mr. Trump in an interview with NBC News linked to his unhappiness with the Russia investigation, triggered the appointment of a special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to the ire of the president.Mr. Trump was furious with Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation and therefore losing control over it. Mr. Priebus’s account confirms and adds more detail to a New York Times report that the president berated Mr. Sessions in a meeting in the Oval Office, leading him to offer his resignation. Vice President Mike Pence and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, were in the meeting, but Mr. Priebus was not.“Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red, out of breath and said, ‘We’ve got a problem,’” Mr. Priebus recalled. “I responded, ‘What?’ And he said, ‘Well, we just got a special counsel and Sessions just resigned.’ I said, ‘What? What the hell are you talking about?’ And I said, ‘That can’t happen.’”Mr. Priebus bolted down the back stairway of the West Wing and out the door to the parking lot and found Mr. Sessions in the back of a black sedan with the engine running and about to leave. “I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there and I just jumped in and shut the door and I said, ‘Jeff, what’s going on?’” Mr. Priebus said. “And then he told me that he was going to resign.”“I said, ‘You cannot resign. It’s not possible. We are going to talk about this right now,’” Mr. Priebus continued. “So I dragged him back up to my office from the car. Pence and Bannon came in,” he added, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, “and we started talking to him to the point where he decided that he would not resign right then and he would instead think about it.”In the end, Mr. Sessions still drafted a resignation letter later that night and sent it to the White House. Mr. Priebus then went to work on Mr. Trump, arguing that he should not accept it. The president reluctantly agreed and Mr. Sessions stayed.But that did not end the danger to the attorney general. A couple months later, Mr. Trump took his anger with Mr. Sessions public by telling The New York Times in an interview that he would not have appointed him attorney general had he known that he would recuse himself.Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump once again demanded Mr. Sessions’s resignation. Citing a White House insider, Mr. Whipple’s book says the president told Mr. Priebus to act on his order. “Don’t try to slow me down like you always do,” Mr. Trump told him. “Get the resignation of Jeff Sessions.”Mr. Priebus, however, did try to slow him down and argued that pushing out Mr. Sessions would result in the resignations of the second- and third-ranking Justice Department officials too. “If I get this resignation, you are in for a spiral of calamity that makes Comey look like a picnic,” Mr. Priebus warned him. Again, Mr. Trump backed down.But in other ways he did not. Mr. Priebus said he and other aides — including Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter; Jared Kushner, his son-in-law; and Hope Hicks, his communications director — regularly tried to convince Mr. Trump that his random, often incendiary Twitter messages were self-destructive.“I told him, ‘Some of it’s not helpful, it causes distraction. We can get thrown off our message by tweeting things that aren’t the issues of the day,’” he said. But he did not get through. “Everybody tried at different times to cool down the Twitter habit — but no one could do it. Not me, Jared, Ivanka, Hope.”Even the first lady weighed in when her husband addressed Congress. “After the joint session, we all talked to him and Melania said, ‘No tweeting,’” Mr. Priebus said. “And he said, ‘OK — for the next few days.’ We had many discussions involving this issue. We had meetings in the residence. I couldn’t stop it.”The challenge was clear from the very start when Mr. Trump called him the morning after he was sworn in ranting about news coverage comparing the size of his inaugural crowd with that of his predecessor. Mr. Priebus tried to calm the new president, but ultimately had to go along. “Am I going to go to war over this with the president of the United States?” he asked himself.Mr. Priebus’s inability to control Mr. Trump or even control who could wander in and out of the Oval Office caused consternation. Mr. Bannon told Mr. Whipple that John F. Kelly, then the secretary of homeland security, complained to him about it. “He said to me, ‘It really upsets me that I walk in the Oval Office and it’s like Grand Central Station,’” said Mr. Bannon.Ultimately, Mr. Trump would pick Mr. Kelly to replace Mr. Priebus. But Mr. Kelly, who initially earned plaudits for imposing more order on the West Wing, lately has come under fire for his management of the White House, particularly his handling of spousal abuse allegations that resulted in the resignation of the staff secretary, Rob Porter.Mr. Priebus said that Mr. Trump has spent his whole life resisting the sort of organization that others would like to impose on him. “The idea that he was suddenly going to accept an immediate and elaborate staff structure regulating every minute of his life was never in the cards,” Mr. Priebus said. “At least not on Day 1.”THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”Mr. Trump’s argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.Jimmy Carter endured significant political damage when his confidant and budget director, Bert Lance, was accused of banking irregularities. Even putting aside the Iran-contra scandal and the Monica S. Lewinsky affair, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton were besieged by investigations of their aides unrelated to them. In Reagan’s era, it became known as the “sleaze factor.” Mr. Clinton’s team drew the scrutiny of six independent counsels other than Kenneth W. Starr.In the current case, the targets so far have included not just a “coffee boy,” as Mr. Papadopoulos was described by an adviser to Mr. Trump, but the president’s top two campaign officials and national security adviser. While Mr. Trump has dismissed the relevance of allegations against Mr. Manafort because they involved business dealings before the campaign, the latest indictment claims that he was scheming to defraud banks while serving as Mr. Trump’s chairman.Moreover, it remains unclear why he volunteered to work for Mr. Trump’s campaign without pay at a time when he was experiencing significant financial pressure.Mr. Trump’s defenders have focused on questioning the original basis for the investigation, accusing the F.B.I. of misconduct in relying on an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy hired by investigators working for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign.To the extent that Mr. Mueller is exploring whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey, the president’s defenders contend that under the Constitution, he has the power to dismiss executive branch officials and dictate their work. They also point to testimony by Mr. Comey and other officials who said the investigation was not impeded.Therefore, they argue, the original order appointing Mr. Mueller was itself invalid and should be revoked.In the meantime, they are left to interpret the clues from Mr. Mueller’s actions just like everyone else. David B. Rivkin Jr., a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Reagan and President George Bush, said the totality of Mr. Mueller’s actions still did not add up to a threat to Mr. Trump.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”Mr. Trump’s argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. “We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are — or have been — what makes us a people.”Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the “whatever-it-takes-to-win politics” that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.Mr. Stutz lived in Austin, Tex. (another Amazon finalist), before moving to Seattle, and watched its evolution from sleepy state capital to technology hub and hip cultural magnet. “Austin was never a cool place,” he said. “Now it’s a hotbed of cool. Indianapolis isn’t quite there yet, but I see a lot of similarities.”Last year Bon Appétit magazine devoted a feature to the “Brooklynization of Indy” that focused on the city’s explosion of craft breweries, artisanal bakeries and farm-to-table restaurants.Transportation facilities are also prominent on Amazon’s wish list. The city’s light-filled new international airport has been voted the best in North America for five years running by Airports Council International and the best airport in the United States for four years by readers of Condé Nast Traveler.The airport offers multiple direct flights to Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston and Washington, and is about to start nonstop service to Paris.Indianapolis’s central location and network of interstate highways earned the city its nickname, the Crossroads of America. Amazon is among the large companies with distribution centers there.While Indianapolis lacks subways, light rail or a sophisticated urban transport network, the city is crisscrossed with bike and walking trails. Mr. Stutz said many Salesforce employees biked or walked to work (something Amazon’s Seattle employees value).Of the 20 finalist cities, Indianapolis has the least traffic congestion and the lowest average home prices, according to the Chamber of Commerce. That’s not to say there aren’t high-end options: A 21,000-square-foot, six-bedroom 1930s-era mansion, currently home to the Indiana University chancellor, is on the market for just under $7 million. (It might be perfect for the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos.)For all its virtues, Indianapolis faces a number of hurdles. While Mr. Stutz told me that Salesforce had found an abundance of homegrown tech talent there, Amazon knows it will need to import many of the high-level software engineers and employees who will form the core of the work force at its second headquarters. That may be a challenge.Unlike Amazon’s home state of Washington, Indiana reliably votes Republican in presidential elections, though it went for Barack Obama over John McCain in 2008. Donald J. Trump carried the state overwhelmingly in 2016, and Mike Pence, an Indiana native and self-described religious conservative, served as Indiana’s governor before becoming Mr. Trump’s vice president.A strong streak of social conservatism runs through the state (though not so much in Indianapolis), and this week the state legislature was roiled by a new round in the culture wars as legislators debated whether to pass a hate-crimes bill to protect victims of bias based on race, religion, sex, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation. Indiana is one of only five states without such legislation.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Anthony Scaramucci, another Goldman alumnus, was on the transition team en route to the post of White House communications director months later. Outranking them all was Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, who worked at the bank early in his career and who reported directly to the president.Depending on one’s point of view, this was either a sellout to Wall Street by a president who had railed against Goldman during the campaign, or a welcome check on some of Mr. Trump’s more radical tendencies.As the Trump adviser and former House speaker Newt Gingrich put it last year, “It would be interesting to see to what degree the New York liberals change Trump and to what degree Trump changes the New York liberals.”Now, the verdict would appear to be in: Mr. Trump remains the impulsive, freewheeling provocateur in chief, and much of the Goldman contingent has been banished or is leaving the White House.“Everyone was wondering who would dominate the White House: Steve Bannon or the Manhattan mafia,” Mr. Gingrich told me this week, referring to the Goldman alumni. “It turns out Donald Trump dominated the White House. Surprise! That should have been obvious to anyone who knows anything about Trump.”Roy C. Smith, a former Goldman partner and professor of management practice at New York University’s Stern School of Business, agreed. “I never really thought the Goldman crowd would tame Trump,” he said. “They didn’t share a common agenda or a common bond.”That was almost immediately apparent as the White House descended into multiple warring factions, with the Goldman alumni often in opposing camps. The flame-throwing impulses of Mr. Bannon, in particular, were often at odds with the more measured, pragmatic styles of Mr. Cohn and Ms. Powell. (Goldman veterans told me the Bannon persona that emerged during the campaign and at the White House bears little resemblance to the clean-cut, hard-working young mergers-and-acquisitions banker they remember.)Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci both self-destructed in spectacular, un-Goldman-like fashion. Mr. Bannon was fired from his White House job last summer and fully excommunicated after publication this month of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” which is filled with inflammatory quotes from Mr. Bannon.Mr. Scaramucci lasted only 10 days as communications director last summer. He was dispatched after a colorful and expletive-laced rant to Ryan Lizza, who was then with The New Yorker, in which he denounced White House leakers and self-promoters, singling out Mr. Bannon in particular. (Mr. Scaramucci’s attack seems less ad hominem now that Mr. Bannon has emerged as Mr. Wolff’s main source.)In far more dignified fashion, Ms. Powell announced her resignation in December, and her going-away party last week at Washington’s Cafe Milano featured a who’s who of Trump administration royalty, including Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. Even then, the event was overshadowed by the mounting fallout from Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments earlier that day about Haiti and countries in Africa. Fortunately for Ms. Powell, she won’t be called upon to defend the remarks.Now Mr. Cohn is widely expected to leave as well, the only question being how soon. Mr. Cohn fell out with Mr. Trump after he distanced himself from the president’s racially charged comments about last summer’s riots in Charlottesville, Va. Mr. Cohn drafted a resignation letter at the time, but had second thoughts and stayed.Mr. Cohn has subsequently redeemed himself, to a large degree, by executing the president’s economic agenda. He helped deliver a sweeping tax overhaul, the administration’s signature achievement so far, and has stayed out of the public eye, which Mr. Trump likes. At times Mr. Trump has seemed to enjoy having a former Goldman Sachs president working for him, given that Goldman had long shunned him as a client.But Mr. Trump passed over Mr. Cohn for the post of Federal Reserve chairman. In late December Mr. Cohn told the news site Axios he would still be in the administration three months hence. Earlier this month the time frame seemed to have shrunk. Asked how long he would stay at the White House, Mr. Cohn said only, “I’m here today and I’m here next week.”Professor Smith of N.Y.U. said he hoped Mr. Cohn would leave soon “because his reputation will be mangled if he stays.”“He delivered the tax legislation,” he said. “Whether you agree with it or not, he executed. That’s his skill. And he stood up to the president after Charlottesville. People respect that. I think he could leave now with his reputation intact.”Alone among the prominent Goldman alumni in the administration, Mr. Mnuchin seems likely to stay. “He’s been a good and loyal employee,” Professor Smith said. “But he’s more of a Hollywood person now. His reputation in the professional financial sector may not matter that much to him.”Mr. Bannon and Mr. Scaramucci aside, “any so-called exodus may be a function of what they achieved,” Mr. Gingrich said of the Goldman veterans.“There’s nothing on the agenda this year that’s nearly as exciting as reshaping the tax code,” he said. “They worked very hard and tried to do things that were effective. In that sense they were a real asset.”At the same time, Mr. Gingrich contended that Mr. Trump — and not his advisers — deserved the lion’s share of credit for the tax bill, for building confidence in the economy, and for not launching a trade war.“He has a much broader capacity than people in the District of Columbia give him credit for,” Mr. Gingrich said of the president. “People get so wound up in the goofier things he does, the tweets and outrageous statements. But underneath that is a very methodical and pragmatic businessman. He knows how to use competent people.”In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.As you might imagine, T’Challa experienced a bit of culture shock. He bungled questions about credit-card debt and parenting, before buzzing in on a clue about law enforcement: “The policeman says there’s been some robberies in your neighborhood and asks if you have any information.” Boseman responded, “What is, not only do I tell this man what I know, but I also assist him in tracking down the offender. After all, our ministers of law enforcement are only here to protect us.”Thompson twisted his features into an expression reminiscent of the nauseated face emoji. “I’m thinking you haven’t spent much time in America,” he said.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.Inspectors general at cabinet agencies are kept separate to preserve their independence. Paul Light, a New York University professor and specialist on the offices, recalled that President Ronald Reagan fired all of the inspectors general but was forced by Congress to rehire some of them. “They have protections in statutes against arbitrary dismissal,” he said.After Mr. Trump’s tweet, Mr. Horowitz, the inspector general, received support from Republicans, including Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee that confirmed him.“I have complete confidence in him and hope he is given the time, the resources and the independence to complete his work,” said Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight Committee.Several Republicans expressed dismay at the president’s continued campaign against Mr. Sessions. “It’s kind of mind-boggling that he would call out his own attorney general,” former Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah said on Fox News.Representative Peter T. King of New York, also on Fox, expressed sympathy with Mr. Trump’s desire for a second investigation run by Mr. Sessions, but added that the president should not berate him. “Jeff Sessions is loyal to the president and he’s one of the first to support him, and he’s often in very difficult positions and I think he’s trying to reconcile as best as he can,” he said.Michael W. McConnell, a former appellate judge now at Stanford Law School, said a president has every right to direct his attorney general.“What raises eyebrows is the form and tone of the tweet, which appears to be a commentary on the attorney general’s decisions rather than an exercise of presidential supervisory authority,” he said. “Mr. Trump is the president. If he wants something done differently, he should order that it be done differently, with serious reflection, through proper channels and in the proper form.”Jamil Jaffer, a law professor at George Mason University and former associate White House counsel under President George W. Bush, said social media was not the best way to direct action by an attorney general. “The president has a lot of tools that are a lot more effective than putting the A.G. on blast on Twitter,” he said.But Mr. Trump got support from other quarters. Representative Lee Zeldin of New York and a dozen other Republicans sent a letter to Mr. Sessions on Wednesday urging him to appoint a special counsel to investigate the handling of Mrs. Clinton’s case and the FISA warrant targeting Mr. Page.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”“What matters is whether we have a relative advantage in the market,” Mr. Musk said during an earnings conference call last year. “And in fact the incentives give us a relative disadvantage,” since, at Tesla’s current sales rate, Tesla customers will soon see their tax credit disappear.He noted that “Tesla’s competitive advantage improves as the incentives go away.” (A Tesla spokeswoman declined to comment further.)The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.A major issue for the New York area’s airports is that the Port Authority is allowed to divert revenues collected from airline passengers to nonairport uses, like the PATH train and the new Oculus station at the World Trade Center, a project that went grossly over budget. Federal law bans such redirections elsewhere, but the Port Authority was one of several airport operators that were exempted.“If Newark airport kept all the money it generated from landing fees it could be a world-class airport,” said Tom Wright, president of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research group that focuses on infrastructure and public policy in the New York area. But doing so would starve other Port Authority needs, such as mass transit, he added. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.With that in mind, here’s a look at the major areas where Mr. Trump claims credit.The S.&P. 500 index rose 23 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year in office, an increase surpassed only by Franklin Roosevelt and Barack Obama, both Democrats who took office in the wake of financial crises and stock market crashes. Mr. Trump’s policies and Republicans in Congress deserve some credit, given that economists expect the cut in corporate taxes to raise company earnings, and stock prices are fundamentally a reflection of earnings expectations.“There’s no question after-tax earnings will be higher” thanks to the tax legislation, Professor Slemrod said.But the estimated impact on after-tax earnings — a range of 7 to 10 percent, according to most economists — accounts for less than half the stock market’s rise over the past year. The rest is because of other factors, which may include Mr. Trump’s pro-business outlook, but also many things beyond his control.Stock market valuations are reaching lofty levels by many measures, and those gains may prove ephemeral if growth doesn’t live up to investors’ rosy expectations. “The value of the stock market isn’t an indicator of the economic health of America,” Professor Slemrod noted.Gross domestic product grew by 2.3 percent last year, lower than Mr. Trump’s predictions of 3-plus percent, but significantly better than the 1.6 percent growth in 2016, Mr. Obama’s last year in office.As should be obvious, passage of the Republican tax legislation was too recent to have had any impact on those numbers. To the extent that expectations of tax reform fueled investment decisions, they may have had some effect, but that’s nearly impossible to measure.The first real clues will come next year, when 2018 gross domestic product numbers are released. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that the new tax legislation would raise G.D.P. by seven-tenths of a percent over what it would have been under the old law.“The economy has been strong, and forecasts for next year have been bumped up due to the tax cut, ” said Professor Auerbach. “But there’s a lot going on. You won’t be able to tell what the impact is from just a few quarters.”Even 10 years after the 1986 law, “it was very difficult to tease out the impact of tax reform on the economy,” he said. “The best estimate is it didn’t have much effect.”Professor Slemrod agreed. “Tax policy might not be as critical to the rate of business investment as had been thought,” he said.Still, if United States economic growth hits Chinese levels of 7 percent a year or more, which Mr. Trump repeatedly has said is attainable, then Republicans will have a “much stronger” basis for claiming credit for it, Professor Slemrod said. But he deemed such an outcome “extraordinarily unlikely.”Many companies have been doling out bonuses to employees since the tax legislation passed, but “I don’t think that tells us anything,” Professor Slemrod said. That’s because in standard economic theory, labor market conditions dictate employee compensation levels, not cash flow or profitability.“The labor market was strengthening long before Mr. Trump was elected or the tax bill was passed,” Professor Slemrod said. “If companies were going to raise wages anyway to stay competitive, they have a public relations incentive to attribute it to tax cuts.”Wage growth actually slowed during the first year of Mr. Trump’s presidency compared with the last year of Mr. Obama’s.Mr. Auerbach added that given the length of the recovery and low levels of unemployment, many economists “have been wondering why we haven’t seen stronger wage growth” as competition for labor heats up. “Now we may be starting to see it.”Much the same can be said about unemployment, which fell to 4.1 percent from 4.7 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year as president, and which also reflects the tight labor market conditions that have been developing for years. The unemployment rate fell much more during the Obama years (three full percentage points, from when Mr. Obama took office until when he left), which would be expected given the severe recession he inherited.In any event, it’s far too soon to evaluate Mr. Trump’s impact on the labor market. Economists generally agree that at least some of the Republican tax cuts will flow through to workers, although there are widely differing projections about how much, and most say the largest share will go to shareholders in the form of dividends, stock buybacks and higher share prices. Professor Slemrod said we may never know for sure, but “in five or six years we may be able to tell if some of the more extreme claims are reasonable.”In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.Labor discipline was another matter. In the farming and domestic work that people had been doing for generations, “intense activity alternated with slack times,” whereas factory production was repetitive and continuous, requiring “coordinated activity by dozens or hundreds of workers, who were expected to start and stop work at the same time, day after day.”Now that factory work and stable, blue-collar jobs are such potent sources of nostalgia, it can be hard to recall how truly disruptive the manufacturing age was. Freeman does a superb job of reminding us. For an agrarian society like England, the factory generated a wistfulness for the bucolic agricultural past. The “dark Satanic Mills” bemoaned by William Blake were powered by steam and coal-fired boilers that belched smoke and soot. Seventy-hour work weeks were common. Male workers chafed at the constant supervision on the factory floor, and owners preferred not to employ men, anyway. “Today, in the United States, factories are associated with masculinity,” Freeman writes, “but in their early days they were spaces largely occupied by women and children.”Some of the details recounted here are familiar, though still appalling. In the 19th century, textile mills in New England — which were supposed to be gentler than the cruel depredations of the Old World — employed children as young as 4. Factory workers in Britain overwhelmed urban areas, crowding together in squalor. A Manchester official described streets “so covered with refuse and excrementitious matter as to be almost impassable from depth of mud, and intolerable from stench.”As Freeman shows, what started inauspiciously became an engine for material abundance and, in the cases of the United States and the Soviet Union, a source of national pride. Factories, especially steel mills, became the behemoths of the book’s title, consolidations of equipment and labor on a massive scale. Freeman suggests the awe that these enormous structures must have inspired, describing how dignitaries attending the opening of a steel mill in 19th-century Maryland “rode in decorated gondola cars along the route iron ore would take,” ascending to a height of eight stories. Unlike the textile worker, who brought to mind wan images of a young woman or “a sickly child,” steelworkers were often portrayed “as intensely masculine, often bare-chested, with muscles rippling.”With size and strength came strife too, as steel mills became sites for a bitter class war. Start-up costs were high, so a few big firms dominated the industry. Unions organized in response. Steel magnates like Andrew Carnegie resented any incursions on their freedom to set wages and working conditions at will; they wanted the right to squeeze labor to maintain profitability. The Homestead strike of 1892 turned into a literal conflagration, as steelworkers in Pennsylvania set the Monongahela River on fire.Freeman handles all of this material with the seriousness it deserves. If “Behemoth” can feel a little slow-going at times, that’s partly because of the knottiness of the history Freeman lays out, as well as his honorable refusal to resort to simplistic notions of grand progress or portentous doom.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”Mr. Sessions’s standing with Mr. Trump has eroded in his year as attorney general. The president criticized his Senate confirmation performance and his decision to remove himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, even musing that he would not have hired Mr. Sessions had he anticipated the recusal. He berated him so severely over Mr. Mueller’s appointment that Mr. Sessions offered his resignation.That fraught relationship has impaired Mr. Sessions’s ability to act as a bulwark between his lawyers and politics, former career prosecutors said.“Sessions’s silence is evidence that Trump’s public neutering of anyone close to this investigation is working,” said Paul Pelletier, a Democratic candidate for Congress in Virginia who was a federal prosecutor for nearly three decades. “It is deleterious to the whole criminal justice process.”Mr. Pelletier said that although the attorneys general with whom he worked, from Edwin Meese III to Eric H. Holder Jr., clashed with their staff, they gave prosecutors and the institution itself unwavering public support.“Prosecutors and agents are extremely vulnerable if they’re not properly supported by leadership, especially when it comes to investigations and attacks launched on the political side,” said Daniel Petalas, a former prosecutor in the department’s public integrity section and the United States attorney’s office in Washington.The department is often involved in high-profile cases, sometimes with powerful people at the center who seek to discredit the investigations against them. “Prosecutors have to stand silently and cannot defend their work to the public,” Mr. Petalas said. “They can only hope that the leadership will serve as a bulwark.”Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.State lawmakers also passed the Immigrant Worker Protection Act, which prohibits local business from allowing immigration to gain access to employee records without a court order or subpoena. Mr. Becerra warned that anyone who violated the new law would face a fine of up to $10,000.In the state budget bill, California lawmakers prohibited new contracts for immigration detention in the state and gave the state attorney general the power to monitor all state immigration detention centers.The state and several local governments including the cities of San Francisco and Sacramento have also set up legal defense funds to help defend immigrants during deportation proceedings.“I’m worried about the ‘Dreamers,’ hard-working immigrant families and law-abiding people who are just trying to make their way like the rest of us,” Mayor Darrell Steinberg of Sacramento said this year when asked about the state’s sanctuary legislation. “Civil disobedience is a respectful way to show your love for country.”Tensions between local and federal officials reached yet another height last week, when Mayor Libby Schaaf of Oakland publicly warned of coming large-scale immigration arrest operations. Mr. Homan compared the mayor to a “gang lookout yelling, “Police!” and said she gave people living in the United States illegally a chance to flee. He said her warning meant that the federal immigration authorities arrested about 200 people rather than the 1,000 they had anticipated rounding up.Although Mr. Homan and other federal officials have warned about targeting California as it steps up immigration enforcement efforts, the number of people arrested has not drastically increased so far. In December, the most recent month for which data is available, 1,715 unauthorized immigrants in California were arrested by ICE, compared with 1,379 in December 2016.This is not the first time that the Justice Department has sued a state. During the Obama administration, the department filed a civil rights lawsuit against Georgia for segregating students with disabilities from classrooms and sued North Carolina over a bill to restrict bathroom use for transgender citizens. Mr. Sessions withdrew that lawsuit.In a call with reporters on Tuesday night, Mr. Becerra said that he was confident California would prevail in court and that state and federal laws were not in conflict.“In California, our state laws work in concert with federal law,” he said. “Our teams work together to go after drug dealers and go after gang violence. What we won’t do is change from being focused on public safety. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. “We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are — or have been — what makes us a people.”Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the “whatever-it-takes-to-win politics” that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.There are several ways to revive the common good, Reich suggests. One is to recover the notion of leadership as trusteeship. Corporate executives should recognize responsibilities beyond maximizing profits, and public officials should resist the scorched-earth, anything-goes approach to politics. The essence of Trump’s failure as a leader, according to Reich, is “not that he has chosen one set of policies over another, or has divided rather than united Americans, or even that he has behaved in childish and vindictive ways unbecoming a president. It is that he has sacrificed the processes and institutions of American democracy to achieve his goals.”Reich also calls for a greater emphasis on civic education, including two years of mandatory public service, and efforts to resurrect truth from the miasma of political deceit and fake news. Perhaps the most distinctive measure Reich proposes is the redeployment of honor and shame. Rather than honor people for their wealth or celebrity, we should honor those who display genuine virtue, like whistle-blowers, firefighters, social workers and soldiers — people who perform hard or risky tasks that serve the common good. And we should shame those who, however wealthy, achieve their status through exploitative business practices or morally dubious financial dealings.Interestingly, in developing this theme, Reich favorably cites so-called “virtue conservatives” of the 1980s and 1990s. For example, he quotes William J. Bennett, the education secretary in the Reagan administration, who warned that “nonjudgmentalism … has permeated our culture, encouraging a paralysis of the moral faculty.” He also cites the conservative political scientist James Q. Wilson, who argued that neglecting broken windows in poor communities conveys a message of moral license, leading to an unraveling of social restraints and increased crime. Reich contends that people who get rich by exploiting norms of social trust — by evading taxes, say, or devising barely legal schemes of financial trickery — generate a similar unraveling.Against the grain of much liberal thinking, Reich acknowledges that promoting civic virtue requires being judgmental about what moral attitudes and qualities of character our public life should affirm and promote. This recognition of the role of moral judgment in politics is an important corrective to the liberal wariness of bringing morality into the public square. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.WASHINGTON — As President Trump hammers away at the Justice Department’s credibility, one voice has been notably absent in the department’s defense: the one at the top.The attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has been largely quiet and even yielding as the president leads the most public and prolonged political attack on the department in history, a silence that breaks with a long tradition of attorneys general protecting the institution from such interference.“What is unusual is the F.B.I. and the Justice Department being attacked, the president leading the charge and the attorney general missing in action,” said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor who headed the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush. “Why isn’t he sticking up for the department?”Current and former prosecutors say Mr. Sessions’s tepid response reflects efforts to appease Mr. Trump, even at the expense of morale among the department’s employees, and has raised fears that prosecutors cannot depend on protection from political interference.“Attorneys general swear an oath to protect and defend the Constitution, not the president,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, a partner at Linklaters and a former Justice Department official who began as a federal prosecutor under Mr. Bush. He left the department after his boss, Sally Q. Yates, was fired by Mr. Trump when she refused to defend his travel ban. “Institutions like the D.O.J. rely on their leaders to be a voice that defends them. It’s critically important to this institution that its leadership have its back.”It is a duty previous attorneys general have embraced. The department’s rank and file still extols a story from more than a decade ago. In that encounter, the ailing attorney general, John Ashcroft, allowed his acting replacement, James B. Comey, to defy the Bush administration during a confrontation in his hospital room over a surveillance program that Justice Department lawyers had deemed unconstitutional.The traditional lines have blurred under Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions, however. For nearly a year, the president has critiqued the work of the Justice Department and complained about Mr. Sessions for perceived infractions and acts of disloyalty. He attempted to fire Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel overseeing the investigation into Russian election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign, and considered firing Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who oversees Mr. Mueller.While the Justice Department has argued that a case brought by Paul J. Manafort, a former campaign chairman for Mr. Trump, against Mr. Mueller should be dismissed, Mr. Sessions has not voiced robust support for the special prosecutor.And last week, after Mr. Trump latched on to allegations in a contentious Republican memo that the Justice Department and F.B.I. had abused their surveillance powers and called their conduct a “disgrace,” Mr. Sessions offered a meager defense of his lawyers and the institution. “I have great confidence in the men and women of this department,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement after the memo was released. “But no department is perfect.”Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Sessions declined to comment for this article.His muted response to Mr. Trump’s remarks stood in stark contrast with the defiant statements made by Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. “I am determined to defend your integrity and professionalism every day,” Mr. Wray said in a message to F.B.I. employees. “Talk is cheap; the work you do is what will endure.”Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.This week’s word: nene.If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? However, the nene (pronounced nay-nay) is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, it’s also the world’s rarest goose.Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.Another reason to know your nenes is that, although rare in the wild, they often come up in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in Times crosswords 295 times since 1944.It appeared in the puzzle on March 12 with the clue “Hawaiian goose.” The word might also appear in easy puzzles with the clue “Hawaiian state bird” or “Hawaiian honker.”Later in the week, as the crosswords become harder, it might be referred to as “Aloha State bird,” “Endangered state bird,” “Lava geese,” “Bird so-called from its call” or “Gray-brown goose.”You can find out about the nene and other birds that appear regularly in our Crossword Aviary.Deb Amlen contributed reporting.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”____10. Finally, as the hit show “Fixer Upper” ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.On the late-night shows, Jimmy Fallon said he didn’t have high hopes for President Trump’s trip to Peru for the Summit of the Americas next week: “When he saw it on his schedule, Trump was like, ‘Wait, there’s more than one America? What is this?’”On Monday night, Mr. Fallon will have a co-host for the first time: The rapper Cardi B, who just released her first album, “Invasion of Privacy.”Have a great weekend.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”____10. Finally, as the hit show “Fixer Upper” ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.On the late-night shows, Jimmy Fallon said he didn’t have high hopes for President Trump’s trip to Peru for the Summit of the Americas next week: “When he saw it on his schedule, Trump was like, ‘Wait, there’s more than one America? What is this?’”On Monday night, Mr. Fallon will have a co-host for the first time: The rapper Cardi B, who just released her first album, “Invasion of Privacy.”Have a great weekend.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.In particular, Republicans pointed to Andrew Weissmann, who served as F.B.I. general counsel under Mr. Mueller. Mr. Weissmann is a career prosecutor but, while in private law practice, donated thousands of dollars toward President Barack Obama’s election effort.In his Sunday morning Twitter blasts, Mr. Trump also renewed his attacks on James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, and Andrew G. McCabe, his former deputy, both of whom, like Mr. Mueller, are longtime Republicans. Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey last May, at first attributing the decision to the F.B.I. director’s handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server but later telling an interviewer that he had the Russia investigation in mind when he made the decision.Mr. Sessions, under intense public pressure from Mr. Trump, fired Mr. McCabe on Friday after an inspector general found that he had not been forthcoming about authorizing F.B.I. officials to provide information about the Clinton inquiry in 2016 to a reporter.“Wow, watch Comey lie under oath to Senator G when asked ‘have you ever been an anonymous source...or known someone else to be an anonymous source...?’” Mr. Trump wrote. “He said strongly ‘never, no.’ He lied as shown clearly on @foxandfriends.”Mr. Trump went on to dismiss reports that Mr. McCabe kept detailed memos of his time as deputy F.B.I. director, just as Mr. Comey did. Mr. McCabe left those memos with the F.B.I., which means Mr. Mueller’s team has access to them.“Spent very little time with Andrew McCabe, but he never took notes when he was with me,” Mr. Trump wrote. “I don’t believe he made memos except to help his own agenda, probably at a later date. Same with lying James Comey. Can we call them Fake Memos?”Michael R. Bromwich, Mr. McCabe’s lawyer, fired back by accusing the president of corrupting the law enforcement system. “We will not be responding to each childish, defamatory, disgusting & false tweet by the President,” he wrote on Twitter. “The whole truth will come out in due course. But the tweets confirm that he has corrupted the entire process that led to Mr. McCabe’s termination and has rendered it illegitimate.”The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a leading anti-abortion group, said the president’s directives amounted to taking “a monumental stand.”For someone who once described himself as “very pro-choice,” Mr. Trump’s transformation into a champion of the anti-abortion cause is a remarkable political evolution.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.And that may not be such good news for investors.“If there are any certainties, one will be that this party will eventually come to an end,” Mr. Stack said. “A correction would be healthy. The longer we go without one, the greater the risk this will end badly. A lot of people will get hurt. And when it ends, it will end badly, and with high volatility.”That doesn’t mean the end is imminent, according to Mr. Stack and other investment managers and market experts I interviewed this week. All of them successfully navigated markets last year, when the greatest risk was being underinvested.“Everybody thinks the market is overvalued,” said Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and president of Parnassus Investments. “So do I. I’m expecting a correction, but I was expecting one after Trump was elected. I was wrong. The market can keep going up even when it’s overvalued.”Mr. Dodson didn’t move into cash last year, and his Parnassus Endeavor Fund, where he’s the portfolio manager, gained nearly 20 percent last year and is ranked by Morningstar as the No. 1 fund in its category (large-cap growth) over three-, five- and 10-year periods.“Most seasoned investors realize this market is overvalued and overbought and it’s been a long time since a normal correction,” Mr. Stack said. “They’re nervous.” Nonetheless, he said he was 82 percent invested in stocks, with 18 percent in cash, only slightly more than usual. He said he had learned from decades of market experience that “overvaluation isn’t what causes bear markets — it never has and never will.”In addition, he said, “there’s going to be tremendous political pressure to keep the party going,” especially since Mr. Trump has so often cited the bull market as evidence of the success of his presidency.So what should investors do?It’s probably no surprise that Burton G. Malkiel, the renowned emeritus professor of economics at Princeton and author of the 1973 classic “A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing,” recommends that investors “stay the course.”“If the sharp rise in the stock market in 2017 has unbalanced your portfolio with a higher proportion of equities than is consistent with your risk tolerance, then you could do some rebalancing by trimming the equities down to the proportion at which you are comfortable,” Mr. Malkiel said. “But do not try to time the market. Nobody can consistently time the market, and those who try it usually fail.”Although Mr. Malkiel is a longtime champion of passive, low-cost index investing, a strategy that has worked well since the financial crisis, last year he endorsed an “advanced indexing” approach at the automated investment manager Wealthfront, where he is chief investment adviser. Wealthfront aims to outperform strictly passive investing, and its taxable portfolio returned 20.56 percent last year, which indeed beat its benchmark.Mr. Dodson is an active manager who focuses on stock selection. “I’ve never had a good record at market timing,” he said. “I look for stocks that are undervalued, but I’m having terrible trouble finding anything that’s reasonably priced.”Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.“Nothing about the chaos and turnover in the White House surprises me,” said Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.“He hasn’t changed in 30 years,” Mr. Elson added. “He isn’t bound by any traditional norms of management.”Yet despite the well-documented disarray prevailing in the West Wing, Mr. Trump’s first year has yielded some major accomplishments: business-friendly tax legislation, the appointment of a reliably conservative Supreme Court justice in Neil Gorsuch, the selection of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve and the dismantling of a regulatory regime viewed as overly burdensome by the business community.“You have to hand it to him: He has pulled some rabbits out of his hat,” Mr. Elson said. “Hardly anyone thought he could pull off tax legislation after so many other people had tried and failed.”But Mr. Pfeffer said those achievements had occurred despite the chaos, not because of it. For every success, Mr. Trump has had notable failures, starting with overhauling immigration policy and repealing Obamacare.“I’ve long felt that if Trump didn’t do well, it would be because of organizational issues,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Even with Republicans in control of both houses of Congress, he hasn’t been able to pass much. That speaks to chaos in the policy sphere.”Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.Long-simmering tensions between Qualcomm and Apple reached a boiling point in 2016, when Qualcomm halted rebates it was giving Apple. Qualcomm claimed Apple had violated the terms of the rebate agreement by cooperating with South Korea’s investigation into what Samsung and others said was exclusionary conduct by Qualcomm. Apple responded by withholding the license fees it paid manufacturers of iPhones, who in turn stopped passing on the payments to Qualcomm.Lawsuits and counterclaims erupted, and Qualcomm reduced its revenue estimates by $500 million a year.While Apple has continued to buy and deploy the latest Qualcomm chips, it also reached out to a rival chip maker, Intel, which began supplying an alternative to Qualcomm’s chip for the iPhone 7. (That phone, the iPhone 8 and the X may contain either a Qualcomm or an Intel chip.)Qualcomm claims that Apple has compromised the performance of Qualcomm-equipped handsets in order to mask their superiority over the Intel-equipped phones. (Both Intel and Apple have vehemently denied the claims.)Numerous lawsuits are now well underway in the United States, with some expected to go to trial later this year. Regulators in the European Union, Taiwan, South Korea and China have ruled that Qualcomm’s licensing practices are unlawful and have levied fines, decisions that Qualcomm is appealing. In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission is conducting its own investigation.While armies of patent lawyers fight over the rival claims, investors have already rendered a verdict. Qualcomm shares, after peaking at more than $80 in 2014, dropped by nearly 50 percent, hitting a low of $44 in 2016.Qualcomm’s precipitous decline is what attracted Mr. Dodson’s attention along with other so-called value investors, who look for stocks trading below their intrinsic value. He said his fund’s average cost per share for its Qualcomm position was about $56, so the fund was still ahead even after the deal collapsed this week. On Thursday, Qualcomm was trading at around $60.Still, Qualcomm’s performance has knocked the Endeavor fund from its perch at the top of the Morningstar rankings. So far this year, it’s 61st.Now that Mr. Trump has rescued Qualcomm from the imminent threat of a Broadcom takeover, its financial prospects — and share price — will largely follow the twists and turns in the Apple standoff. While Mr. Dodson remains optimistic about the outcome, that doesn’t mean he’s against all potential takeovers of Qualcomm.Last week, there were rumors that Intel might launch a bid for Broadcom, which made Mr. Dodson wonder: “Why doesn’t it bid for Qualcomm? If Intel bought it, Qualcomm would be in good hands.”WASHINGTON — President Trump asked the man he was considering as temporary F.B.I. director how he had voted in the 2016 presidential election, according to a person familiar with the discussion.The question was directed to Andrew G. McCabe, the bureau’s deputy director. Mr. Trump abruptly fired the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, in May, and at the time, the president openly discussed the need for any successor to be “loyal,” according to an adviser to the president.WASHINGTON — Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director who was fired late Friday, kept contemporaneous memos about his interactions with President Trump and his conversations with the former director James B. Comey, a person close to Mr. McCabe said on Saturday.The memos could bolster the account of Mr. Comey, whose own memos and testimony describe repeated requests by Mr. Trump to clear his name. Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump also asked him to shut down a criminal investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Both matters are under investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is considering whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.Mr. McCabe’s memos were left at the F.B.I., which means that Mr. Mueller’s investigators have access to them as they work to corroborate Mr. Comey’s account. Mr. Trump has denied pressuring Mr. Comey to end the Flynn investigation. Mr. Comey was fired last spring, and the revelation of his conversations with Mr. Trump helped lead to the special counsel’s appointment.Mr. McCabe is known to have had at least three meetings with the president. In one, he asked Mr. McCabe how he had voted in the presidential election. In each, he asked about Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill, who ran a failed campaign as a Democrat for the Virginia State Senate. Mr. McCabe has identified as a lifelong Republican but did not vote in the 2016 presidential race.The existence of his memos was first reported by The Associated Press.THE COMMON GOOD By Robert B. Reich 193 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $22.95.In recent decades, American public discourse has become hollow and shrill. Instead of morally robust debates about the common good, we have shouting matches on talk radio and cable television, and partisan food fights in Congress. People argue past one another, without really listening or seeking to persuade.This condition has diminished the public’s regard for political parties and politicians, and also given rise to a danger: A politics empty of moral argument creates a vacuum of meaning that is often filled by the vengeful certitudes of strident nationalism. This danger now hovers over American politics. More than a year into the presidency of Donald Trump, however, liberals and progressives have yet to articulate a politics of the common good adequate to the country’s predicament.Robert B. Reich’s new book, “The Common Good,” is a welcome response to this challenge. One of the most prominent voices among progressives, Reich has written insightfully about the changing nature of work brought about by globalization and the growing inequality it has generated. He served as secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, but in 2016 endorsed Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton.Reich’s book diagnoses the decline of the common good in American life and suggests ways of restoring it. He begins by observing that even the term has fallen into disuse: “The common good is no longer a fashionable idea. The phrase is rarely uttered today, not even by commencement speakers and politicians.”Reich defines the common good as consisting in “our shared values about what we owe one another as citizens who are bound together in the same society.” What binds us as Americans, he argues, is not birth or ethnicity but a commitment to fundamental ideals and principles: respect for the rule of law and democratic institutions, toleration of our differences and belief in equal political rights and equal opportunity.These ideals and principles, Reich says, are not political, at least not in the partisan sense; to affirm them is not to take sides in debates between Democrats and Republicans. “We passionately disagree about all manner of things. But we must share these commitments to each other because they are — or have been — what makes us a people.”Reich attributes the erosion of the common good in recent decades to the breakdown of moral restraint in the pursuit of power and money. In Washington, the “whatever-it-takes-to-win politics” that began in the Nixon years has led to the hyperpartisanship of today. In the corporate world, the single-minded pursuit of shareholder value has displaced the older notion that companies are responsible for the well-being of workers, customers and the communities they serve.The unbridled pursuit of power and profit has brought an enormous flow of corporate money into politics. The result is a rigged system that perpetuates inequality, enables economic elites to manipulate the rules of the game to their own advantage, undermines trust in institutions and promotes attitudes of unrestrained self-seeking in social life generally.There are several ways to revive the common good, Reich suggests. One is to recover the notion of leadership as trusteeship. Corporate executives should recognize responsibilities beyond maximizing profits, and public officials should resist the scorched-earth, anything-goes approach to politics. The essence of Trump’s failure as a leader, according to Reich, is “not that he has chosen one set of policies over another, or has divided rather than united Americans, or even that he has behaved in childish and vindictive ways unbecoming a president. It is that he has sacrificed the processes and institutions of American democracy to achieve his goals.”Reich also calls for a greater emphasis on civic education, including two years of mandatory public service, and efforts to resurrect truth from the miasma of political deceit and fake news. Perhaps the most distinctive measure Reich proposes is the redeployment of honor and shame. Rather than honor people for their wealth or celebrity, we should honor those who display genuine virtue, like whistle-blowers, firefighters, social workers and soldiers — people who perform hard or risky tasks that serve the common good. And we should shame those who, however wealthy, achieve their status through exploitative business practices or morally dubious financial dealings.Interestingly, in developing this theme, Reich favorably cites so-called “virtue conservatives” of the 1980s and 1990s. For example, he quotes William J. Bennett, the education secretary in the Reagan administration, who warned that “nonjudgmentalism … has permeated our culture, encouraging a paralysis of the moral faculty.” He also cites the conservative political scientist James Q. Wilson, who argued that neglecting broken windows in poor communities conveys a message of moral license, leading to an unraveling of social restraints and increased crime. Reich contends that people who get rich by exploiting norms of social trust — by evading taxes, say, or devising barely legal schemes of financial trickery — generate a similar unraveling.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”As Jeffrey T. Polzer, professor of human resource management at Harvard Business School, told me last year, the time-tested approach is “to surround yourself with talented people who have the most expertise, who bring different perspectives to the issue at hand.”“Then you foster debate and invite different points of view in order to reach a high-quality solution,” Mr. Polzer said.He added that it “requires an openness to being challenged, and some self-awareness and even humility to acknowledge that there are areas where other people know more than you do.”Mr. Trump does appear to solicit and consider the opinions of others, but they are as likely to be random guests at Mar-a-Lago, or television pundits, as they are experts in the field, or even his own appointees.“The lack of attention to data drives me nuts,” Mr. Pfeffer said. Mr. Trump, he said, “seems to have no interest in science, social science or data,” citing White House initiatives to repeal Obamacare and to rescue the coal industry as glaring examples.Others pointed to his threats to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement with little understanding of the consequences for American businesses and farmers, and his decision to abandon the Paris climate accord despite scant familiarity with the science of climate change.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.He cited what have become known as the “chicken wars” of the early 1960s, a trade dispute set off when Germany and France imposed tariffs on American chicken. The United States retaliated by imposing tariffs on an array of goods, including French brandy, light trucks and Volkswagen buses. The United States even threatened to reduce its troop presence in Europe. Despite those pressures, the newly formed European Economic Community did not back down, and in that sense the United States “lost” the war.The biggest losers, though, were American and European consumers deprived of choices in the marketplace and forced to pay higher prices for what was available.There were also unintended consequences. American automakers, insulated from foreign competition by the tariffs, failed to modernize, improve quality or reduce costs, setting the stage for a decades-long decline, which for Chrysler and General Motors ended in bankruptcy.Much the same can be said of the United States steel industry, which since World War II has probably received more protection from tariffs and quotas than any other industry. “They just used the protection to raise prices, fatten profits, pay their executives more and avoid automating and reducing costs,” Professor Conybeare said. “They didn’t use the breathing space they gained to modernize. So much of the U.S. steel industry is using obsolete technology, which is why they can’t compete.”The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.Labor discipline was another matter. In the farming and domestic work that people had been doing for generations, “intense activity alternated with slack times,” whereas factory production was repetitive and continuous, requiring “coordinated activity by dozens or hundreds of workers, who were expected to start and stop work at the same time, day after day.”Now that factory work and stable, blue-collar jobs are such potent sources of nostalgia, it can be hard to recall how truly disruptive the manufacturing age was. Freeman does a superb job of reminding us. For an agrarian society like England, the factory generated a wistfulness for the bucolic agricultural past. The “dark Satanic Mills” bemoaned by William Blake were powered by steam and coal-fired boilers that belched smoke and soot. Seventy-hour work weeks were common. Male workers chafed at the constant supervision on the factory floor, and owners preferred not to employ men, anyway. “Today, in the United States, factories are associated with masculinity,” Freeman writes, “but in their early days they were spaces largely occupied by women and children.”Some of the details recounted here are familiar, though still appalling. In the 19th century, textile mills in New England — which were supposed to be gentler than the cruel depredations of the Old World — employed children as young as 4. Factory workers in Britain overwhelmed urban areas, crowding together in squalor. A Manchester official described streets “so covered with refuse and excrementitious matter as to be almost impassable from depth of mud, and intolerable from stench.”The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”Factories weren’t always imbued with such lofty ideals. They were initially devised “to take advantage of mundane commercial opportunities,” Freeman writes. He dates the first factory to 1721: a silk mill, built in Derby, England. In the decade after it opened, Daniel Defoe paid it a visit, declaring it “a Curiosity of a very extraordinary Nature.”The proliferation of these curiosities, culminating in the Industrial Revolution, took some time. Obtaining machinery and technical know-how often entailed some trade espionage, before the British government took an active hand in promoting industrial development.Labor discipline was another matter. In the farming and domestic work that people had been doing for generations, “intense activity alternated with slack times,” whereas factory production was repetitive and continuous, requiring “coordinated activity by dozens or hundreds of workers, who were expected to start and stop work at the same time, day after day.”Now that factory work and stable, blue-collar jobs are such potent sources of nostalgia, it can be hard to recall how truly disruptive the manufacturing age was. Freeman does a superb job of reminding us. For an agrarian society like England, the factory generated a wistfulness for the bucolic agricultural past. The “dark Satanic Mills” bemoaned by William Blake were powered by steam and coal-fired boilers that belched smoke and soot. Seventy-hour work weeks were common. Male workers chafed at the constant supervision on the factory floor, and owners preferred not to employ men, anyway. “Today, in the United States, factories are associated with masculinity,” Freeman writes, “but in their early days they were spaces largely occupied by women and children.”Some of the details recounted here are familiar, though still appalling. In the 19th century, textile mills in New England — which were supposed to be gentler than the cruel depredations of the Old World — employed children as young as 4. Factory workers in Britain overwhelmed urban areas, crowding together in squalor. A Manchester official described streets “so covered with refuse and excrementitious matter as to be almost impassable from depth of mud, and intolerable from stench.”As Freeman shows, what started inauspiciously became an engine for material abundance and, in the cases of the United States and the Soviet Union, a source of national pride. Factories, especially steel mills, became the behemoths of the book’s title, consolidations of equipment and labor on a massive scale. Freeman suggests the awe that these enormous structures must have inspired, describing how dignitaries attending the opening of a steel mill in 19th-century Maryland “rode in decorated gondola cars along the route iron ore would take,” ascending to a height of eight stories. Unlike the textile worker, who brought to mind wan images of a young woman or “a sickly child,” steelworkers were often portrayed “as intensely masculine, often bare-chested, with muscles rippling.”With size and strength came strife too, as steel mills became sites for a bitter class war. Start-up costs were high, so a few big firms dominated the industry. Unions organized in response. Steel magnates like Andrew Carnegie resented any incursions on their freedom to set wages and working conditions at will; they wanted the right to squeeze labor to maintain profitability. The Homestead strike of 1892 turned into a literal conflagration, as steelworkers in Pennsylvania set the Monongahela River on fire.Freeman handles all of this material with the seriousness it deserves. If “Behemoth” can feel a little slow-going at times, that’s partly because of the knottiness of the history Freeman lays out, as well as his honorable refusal to resort to simplistic notions of grand progress or portentous doom.He shows how Henry Ford’s assembly-line innovations rendered his company both dominant and vulnerable: Switching to a new product in 1927 from the Model T required a wholesale overhaul of equipment and processes, costing Ford today’s equivalent of a cool $3.5 billion. Gigant industrialism in the Soviet Union and the Eastern bloc showed its own seams and contradictions; for all the talk of a workers’ paradise, the Soviets eventually criminalized absenteeism, tardiness and “quitting without permission,” controlling labor in ways that would have made the most ruthless capitalist proud.Toward the end of “Behemoth,” Freeman finally arrives in China and Vietnam, where the factory system is still flourishing. Unlike the 20th-century behemoths of the United States, which were publicly showcased as marvels of ingenuity and industry, these new factories keep much of their work hidden. Freeman says Foxconn City in Shenzhen, China, might well be the largest factory ever, though the number of employees is hard to pin down: perhaps as many as 400,000 workers, making sleek and expensive gadgets like Apple’s iPhone.A spate of worker suicides at Foxconn captured the world’s attention in 2010 — at least for a while, though none of Foxconn’s major clients stopped using it. Nor did reports of Foxconn’s merciless and degrading environment put a dent in demand for Apple’s coveted products. Instead of substantively changing its production regime, Foxconn surrounded its factory buildings with yellow netting, to catch despairing workers before they hit the ground.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.My trip to Manhattan from Newark Liberty International Airport began at Terminal A. Newark is a finalist in Amazon’s quest for a second headquarters location, but one look at that terminal should be enough to send the e-commerce giant’s representatives back to Seattle. The aging terminal was packed and badly lit, with peeling, mismatched carpeting. There was a line out of the men’s room because so much plumbing was out of order. There was no dedicated TSA Pre-check line and the food options were minimal.Many consumer reviews of Newark generally, and Terminal A in particular, are scathing. “Let me just say that Terminal A is hell on earth,” wrote one traveler on the airport review site Skytrax.No one, including the airport’s owner and operator, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, defends the terminal. “The Port Authority recognizes that Newark’s Terminal A, which opened in 1973, can no longer adequately serve today’s passengers,” a spokeswoman acknowledged.Terminal A is scheduled to be demolished, which is why it’s gotten little or no investment. Ground was broken for a new terminal last summer, and in December the Port Authority approved $496 million for early-stage development. It’s expected to ask for more funding as soon as next week, and the project is estimated to cost $2.3 billion. But even if all goes according to plan, the new terminal isn’t expected to be fully operational until 2022.The Port Authority has been mired in scandal since at least 2013, when the Fort Lee lane-closing scheme exposed political machinations by appointees of New Jersey’s then-governor, Chris Christie. Rick Cotton, a veteran civil servant and infrastructure expert whom New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named as the authority’s executive director last year, has pledged reforms.Newark’s Terminal B, which received a $350 million update in 2014, and Terminal C, which was built by United Airlines and is operated under a long-term lease by the company, are far better, though both attract plenty of complaints from travelers.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.A survey of their work is now on view at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and our architecture critic says it’s changing the definition of the profession. Above, a rendering of the 2014 Israel-Gaza war.____9. Cecil Taylor, the jazz pianist who defied the genre’s orthodoxy and became one of its most original improvisers, has died at 89.He was a supreme example of an uncompromising artist, arguing — mainly through his work, but in principled and prickly interviews as well — against reductive definitions of what a musician of his training and background could or should do.“What I am doing,” he once explained, “is creating a language. A different American language.”____10. Finally, as the hit show “Fixer Upper” ends, HGTV is looking for some new power couples. Or couples who use power tools, at least. Above, Joanna and Chip Gaines, who became stars on the series.On the late-night shows, Jimmy Fallon said he didn’t have high hopes for President Trump’s trip to Peru for the Summit of the Americas next week: “When he saw it on his schedule, Trump was like, ‘Wait, there’s more than one America? What is this?’”On Monday night, Mr. Fallon will have a co-host for the first time: The rapper Cardi B, who just released her first album, “Invasion of Privacy.”Have a great weekend.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state.Both officials “were very vocal and hands-on and totally bought into this,” said Michael Huber, chief executive of the Indy Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with regional and state elected officials, and private sector leaders, to assemble Indianapolis’s Amazon proposal. “That made it so much easier for us.”Neither the city nor the state has said what, if any, tax or other incentives it is offering Amazon.In opening the competition, Amazon also said that “a strong university system is required.” Indianapolis hardly comes to mind as an academic mecca. But it’s the geographic center of “a surprising number of highly rated schools that are a 45-minute to one-hour drive away,” said Mark McCoy, the president of DePauw University, a liberal arts college and music school in Greencastle (a 35-minute drive from the Indianapolis airport, and also my alma mater).These include Big Ten members Indiana University and Purdue University, as well as Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, ranked the nation’s No. 1 undergraduate engineering program by U.S. News & World Report for 19 consecutive years.Many university faculty members live in or around Indianapolis, “attracted to a metropolitan area with great cultural opportunities,” Dr. McCoy said. “Over 5,000 of our DePauw graduates live in Indianapolis. After they graduate, many of them want to stay.”With a population of 855,000 (ranked 15th among United States cities), in a metropolitan area of more than two million, Indianapolis is larger and more diverse than many people realize. The city has a highly regarded symphony, art museum, ballet and school of ballet, and zoo.It’s probably best known as a sports mecca, with the N.B.A. Pacers, W.N.B.A. Fever and N.F.L. Colts. It’s the headquarters for the N.C.A.A. and the site of numerous collegiate sports competitions, and it hosted the 2012 Super Bowl. And, of course, it’s home to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, site of the Indianapolis 500 auto race.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.Inspectors general at cabinet agencies are kept separate to preserve their independence. Paul Light, a New York University professor and specialist on the offices, recalled that President Ronald Reagan fired all of the inspectors general but was forced by Congress to rehire some of them. “They have protections in statutes against arbitrary dismissal,” he said.After Mr. Trump’s tweet, Mr. Horowitz, the inspector general, received support from Republicans, including Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee that confirmed him.“I have complete confidence in him and hope he is given the time, the resources and the independence to complete his work,” said Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the House Oversight Committee.(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.” (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the day“Our teachers in Oklahoma are going above and beyond every single day for an unacceptable and unsustainable salary that doesn’t even provide them with a living wage.”— Deborah Gist, Tulsa schools superintendent.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”Mr. Trump’s argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.Jimmy Carter endured significant political damage when his confidant and budget director, Bert Lance, was accused of banking irregularities. Even putting aside the Iran-contra scandal and the Monica S. Lewinsky affair, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton were besieged by investigations of their aides unrelated to them. In Reagan’s era, it became known as the “sleaze factor.” Mr. Clinton’s team drew the scrutiny of six independent counsels other than Kenneth W. Starr.In the current case, the targets so far have included not just a “coffee boy,” as Mr. Papadopoulos was described by an adviser to Mr. Trump, but the president’s top two campaign officials and national security adviser. While Mr. Trump has dismissed the relevance of allegations against Mr. Manafort because they involved business dealings before the campaign, the latest indictment claims that he was scheming to defraud banks while serving as Mr. Trump’s chairman.Moreover, it remains unclear why he volunteered to work for Mr. Trump’s campaign without pay at a time when he was experiencing significant financial pressure.Mr. Trump’s defenders have focused on questioning the original basis for the investigation, accusing the F.B.I. of misconduct in relying on an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy hired by investigators working for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign.To the extent that Mr. Mueller is exploring whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey, the president’s defenders contend that under the Constitution, he has the power to dismiss executive branch officials and dictate their work. They also point to testimony by Mr. Comey and other officials who said the investigation was not impeded.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.“The administration is just angry that a state has stood up to them — one that embraces diversity and inclusivity and is the sixth-largest economy in the world thanks to the hard-working immigrants who want to become American citizens,” said Kevin de León, the leader of the California State Senate who wrote one of the sanctuary city laws named in the suit.State lawmakers also passed the Immigrant Worker Protection Act, which prohibits local business from allowing immigration to gain access to employee records without a court order or subpoena. Mr. Becerra warned that anyone who violated the new law would face a fine of up to $10,000.In the state budget bill, California lawmakers prohibited new contracts for immigration detention in the state and gave the state attorney general the power to monitor all state immigration detention centers.The state and several local governments including the cities of San Francisco and Sacramento have also set up legal defense funds to help defend immigrants during deportation proceedings.“I’m worried about the ‘Dreamers,’ hard-working immigrant families and law-abiding people who are just trying to make their way like the rest of us,” Mayor Darrell Steinberg of Sacramento said this year when asked about the state’s sanctuary legislation. “Civil disobedience is a respectful way to show your love for country.”Tensions between local and federal officials reached yet another height last week, when Mayor Libby Schaaf of Oakland publicly warned of coming large-scale immigration arrest operations. Mr. Homan compared the mayor to a “gang lookout yelling, “Police!” and said she gave people living in the United States illegally a chance to flee. He said her warning meant that the federal immigration authorities arrested about 200 people rather than the 1,000 they had anticipated rounding up. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.A top adviser to Mr. Trump said on Sunday that the White House had grown weary of the inquiry. “We have cooperated in every single way, every single paper they’ve asked for, every single interview,” Marc Short, the president’s legislative director, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “There’s a growing frustration that after a year and millions and millions of dollars spent on this, there remains no evidence of collusion with Russia.”A president cannot directly fire a special counsel but can order his attorney general to do so. Even then, a cause has to be cited, like conflict of interest. Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a former campaign adviser, has recused himself from the Russia investigation — to Mr. Trump’s continuing irritation — the task would fall to the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein.But Mr. Rosenstein said as recently as last week that he sees no justification for firing Mr. Mueller, meaning that he would either have to change his mind or be removed himself. The third-ranking official at the Justice Department, Rachel Brand, knowing this issue could reach her, decided last month to step down. The next official in line would be the solicitor general, Noel J. Francisco, a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Mr. Bush.Mr. Trump sought to have Mr. Mueller fired last June but backed down after his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit. The president told The Times a month later that Mr. Mueller would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia.The White House made no assertion last week that the subpoena to the Trump Organization crossed that red line, but Mr. Trump evidently has grown tired of the strategy of being respectful to the special counsel. His focus on Democrats working for Mr. Mueller could be aimed at demonstrating conflict of interest that would merit dismissal.When Mr. Mueller assembled his team, he surrounded himself with trusted former colleagues and experts on specific crimes like money laundering. As the team filled out, Republican allies of Mr. Trump noted that some members had previously contributed to Democratic candidates.In particular, Republicans pointed to Andrew Weissmann, who served as F.B.I. general counsel under Mr. Mueller. Mr. Weissmann is a career prosecutor but, while in private law practice, donated thousands of dollars toward President Barack Obama’s election effort.In his Sunday morning Twitter blasts, Mr. Trump also renewed his attacks on James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, and Andrew G. McCabe, his former deputy, both of whom, like Mr. Mueller, are longtime Republicans. Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey last May, at first attributing the decision to the F.B.I. director’s handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server but later telling an interviewer that he had the Russia investigation in mind when he made the decision.Mr. Sessions, under intense public pressure from Mr. Trump, fired Mr. McCabe on Friday after an inspector general found that he had not been forthcoming about authorizing F.B.I. officials to provide information about the Clinton inquiry in 2016 to a reporter.“Wow, watch Comey lie under oath to Senator G when asked ‘have you ever been an anonymous source...or known someone else to be an anonymous source...?’” Mr. Trump wrote. “He said strongly ‘never, no.’ He lied as shown clearly on @foxandfriends.”Mr. Trump went on to dismiss reports that Mr. McCabe kept detailed memos of his time as deputy F.B.I. director, just as Mr. Comey did. Mr. McCabe left those memos with the F.B.I., which means Mr. Mueller’s team has access to them.“Spent very little time with Andrew McCabe, but he never took notes when he was with me,” Mr. Trump wrote. “I don’t believe he made memos except to help his own agenda, probably at a later date. Same with lying James Comey. Can we call them Fake Memos?”With every new episode of “Saturday Night Live,” you can find us here writing about the most notable sketches. See you next Saturday, April 14, for an episode hosted by John Mulaney with musical guest Jack White. President Trump had his sights set abroad this week, announcing plans to send National Guard troops to the United States border with Mexico and hurtling toward what many fear will become a trade war with China. But, on Saturday evening, he faced an unexpected crisis much closer to home: In Midtown Manhattan, the president’s flagship edifice, Trump Tower, briefly caught fire.Just hours later, Alec Baldwin took the stage less than half a mile away to reprise his recurring role as Trump in the opening sketch of a “Saturday Night Live” episode hosted by the “Black Panther” star Chadwick Boseman and featuring the musical guest Cardi B. After issuing a “Fox News Alert” comprised solely of the word “Mexicans,” Harris Faulkner (Leslie Jones), a co-host of the network’s female-dominated talk show “Outnumbered,” segued into a joint news conference between the president and the leaders of the Baltic nations.“Let’s make this quick because I’ve got a lot of trade wars to escalate, here, OK?” said Baldwin’s impatient President Trump, by way of a greeting. “That’s why I just announced tariffs on more Chinese products, including fireworks and finger traps.” He hastened to introduce his counterparts from Estonia, Lithuania and, Baldwin said, “I wanna say Stankonia.” (The third Baltic nation is actually Latvia. “Stankonia” is the title of an album by the hip-hop duo OutKast.)[ Want to know what’s new on your streaming services? Lucky for you, we’ve done all the hard work and picked the best titles to watch. ]When Baldwin was compelled to take questions from reporters, he diverted a query about the president’s claim that he was unaware of the payout that the porn star Stormy Daniels received in exchange for signing a nondisclosure agreement about their relationship to the Latvian president, Raimonds Vējonis (Alex Moffat). “Borat, you wanna take that one?” he asked.“We have an expression in my country,” said Moffat. “And it translates roughly as, ‘This man is lying.’”The final query of the cold open came from a reporter played by Melissa Villaseñor, who wondered if the president was worried that the new trade tariffs would imperil the United States’ standing in the world.“I’m the only one who’s willing to actually say this: I don’t care about America, OK?” Baldwin replied. “This whole presidency is a four-year cash grab, and admitting that will probably get me four more years.”In other memorable moments from this episode:This week brought the return of the beloved “S.N.L.” sketch “Black Jeopardy,” which stars Keenan Thompson as the game show’s host, Darnell Hayes. “This might be the blackest ‘Black Jeopardy’ yet,” he announced. Categories included “Fid’na,” “Aw Hell Naw” and “White People,” among others. This time, the contestants included Leslie Jones as Shanice, Chris Redd as Rashad — and Boseman as his “Black Panther” character, T’Challa, the king of a fictional, quasi-utopian, all-black African nation called Wakanda.As you might imagine, T’Challa experienced a bit of culture shock. He bungled questions about credit-card debt and parenting, before buzzing in on a clue about law enforcement: “The policeman says there’s been some robberies in your neighborhood and asks if you have any information.” Boseman responded, “What is, not only do I tell this man what I know, but I also assist him in tracking down the offender. After all, our ministers of law enforcement are only here to protect us.”Thompson twisted his features into an expression reminiscent of the nauseated face emoji. “I’m thinking you haven’t spent much time in America,” he said.The “Weekend Update” co-anchor Colin Jost also addressed President Trump’s decision to send National Guard troops to the border with Mexico, even though, he pointed out, “reports show that illegal border crossings are at their lowest level since 1971.” He continued, “It’s all part of Trump’s philosophy: ‘If it ain’t broke, I’ll break it.”A robotic Mark Zuckerberg, played by Alex Moffat, stopped by “Weekend Update” to address the criticism he has received since the Cambridge Analytica data leak. “Hi there, Colin,” he greeted Jost, before instructing himself to “begin eye contact.”“Unlike my facial expression, Facebook is going to change,” Moffat promised, in an interview punctuated by high-pitched giggles and stiff attempts at dabbing.He concluded with a disingenuous mea culpa:“My point is, sure, maybe Facebook sold out our democracy to Russian troll farms. My bad? But, on the other hand: Farmville. To be honest, I feel great about Facebook’s future. I sleep easy at night, upside down in my pressurized sleep egg. And sure, I still have all your photos, your memories, your unspoken thoughts and fears. But, America, look at me in my shark eyes when I say this — that, on behalf of everyone on Facebook, I’m sorry. On opposite day!”What started out as a sketch about three girlfriends at Disneyland found its punch line in the R&B singer R. Kelly — who has been the subject for many years of disturbing accusations. Staring into a “magic” mirror that had shown her friends their “personal Disney princesses,” Jones was surprised to find the leather-clad musician staring back at her, then gyrating with a bag of popcorn held over his crotch. “What are you up to R. Kelly? Why is R. Kelly in there?” she demanded. “The last place he needs to be is Disneyland!”The rapper Cardi B, who released her debut album, “Invasion of Privacy,” on Friday, played a medley of her biggest hits to date, “Bodak Yellow” and “Bartier Cardi,” in her first performance of the night. Clad in white and black fur, sporting close-cropped green hair, and flanked by four backup dancers, she delivered a typically energetic (and heavily bleeped) performance.She showed off her softer side in a performance of a quieter “Invasion of Privacy” track, “Be Careful,” appearing in a long, high-necked dress with a retro beehive hairdo. When the camera pulled back from a close-up to show her torso, the form-fitting dress seemed to reveal that Cardi B was pregnant. Shortly after the performance, her fiancé, the rapper and Migos member Offset, seemed to confirm that impression on Instagram.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.“Federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution, no matter how horrendous the underlying attacks or morally compelling the plaintiffs’ claims,” Judge John G. Koeltl, who ordinarily sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan, wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for the solicitor general’s office, said the administration was committed to fighting terrorism.“The United States condemns acts of terror in the strongest terms, and the Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting those who commit terrorist attacks against innocent human beings to the fullest extent that the law allows,” she said in a statement. “The United States sympathizes deeply with the American families who, in 2004, sued the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization for acts of terrorism committed against their loved ones between 2002 and 2004.”“The court of appeals decided, however,” she said, “that the suit was not consistent with due process under the Constitution, and its decision does not meet the usual standards for Supreme Court review. We will continue to support wherever possible all lawful actions to fight terrorism and provide redress to the victims of terrorist attacks and their families.”When the Supreme Court asks the solicitor general for his or her views on whether to hear an appeal, as it does about 25 times each term, it presumably wants to know both whether the case warrants the justices’ attention and whether the party seeking review is right.Mr. Francisco gave only half an answer, taking no position on whether the appeals court’s decision was correct. According to Mr. Olson’s brief, “research revealed only one other instance since 2014 in which the solicitor general did not state a view on the merits” in similar circumstances.The two sides disagree about how many cases will be thwarted by the appeals court’s ruling. “It is far from clear that the court of appeals’ approach will foreclose many claims that would otherwise go forward in federal courts,” Mr. Francisco wrote for the administration.The entire House of Representatives and 23 senators disagreed. In briefs filed last April, they said the appeals court’s ruling had cut the heart out of the statute, effectively nullifying it.When a federal court strikes down parts of a federal law, the solicitor general typically defends the statute. In his brief, Mr. Olson, a former solicitor general, used unusually harsh words in criticizing the current one for taking a different approach.“The United States’ argument that this court should not address this issue is, to put it bluntly,” he wrote, “a blatant abdication of duty.”Those are harsh words, and they will get the justices’ attention when they meet in private next week to discuss whether to hear the case, Sokolow v. Palestine Liberation Organization, No. 16-1071, almost 13 months after the plaintiffs filed their petition seeking review.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”The president announced a string of changes, including a ban of so-called bump stock devices, which can make semiautomatic rifles fire like machine guns and were found on firearms used in October’s mass shooting in Las Vegas. The Justice Department, Mr. Trump said, was reviewing the issue and would soon move to take the devices off shelves.But at the time, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department agency leading the legal review of bump stocks, had reached no such conclusion. Officials in the bureau’s press office appeared surprised when first asked about the president’s comments and said the agency was still determining whether it could ban the devices — which it had previously said it could not do.Mr. Trump’s remarks had the desired effect. The Justice Department and A.T.F. aligned themselves with the president, backing away from the bureau’s earlier conclusion and announcing on Saturday that the agency can ban bump stocks under current law, as the president had promised. On Monday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions reiterated that he had sent a draft proposal to effectively ban bump stocks to the Office of Management and Budget, which approves federal rule changes.The reversal was the culmination of weeks of political posturing from Mr. Trump, whose public demands have repeatedly short-circuited his administration’s regulatory process and, at times, contradicted his own Justice Department. The dissonance laid bare his lack of experience in managing governing processes like regulation. And by publicly pressuring the A.T.F. to ban the devices, legal experts say, Mr. Trump undercut the process and all but guaranteed that gun owners and gun rights groups like the National Rifle Association have grounds to sue.“There will be lawsuits because it looks like the agency has bowed to political pressure,” said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.The A.T.F. and Justice Department declined to comment. A senior administration official defended the process and said that the White House had consistently coordinated with the Justice Department. In the weeks leading up to Mr. Trump’s first calls to ban bump stocks, the official said, the White House knew the bureau was open to revisiting a ban.Yet in tweets, public remarks and statements, Mr. Trump upended the time-consuming, often-overlooked federal rule-making process, which requires coordination among multiple agencies. The president dismissed it as “long and complicated,” vowing that bump stocks would be banned and that the legal review was almost finished.“I expect that these critical regulations will be finalized, Jeff, very soon,” Trump said in the days after the Florida shooting, directly addressing Mr. Sessions while the agency was continuing its review.As recently as last week, the public positions of the president and the bureau were out of sync. Mr. Trump announced that the “legal papers” to ban bump stocks were nearly completed and said the devices would soon be “gone.” That same day, bureau officials said that the agency was still reviewing the issue, and that no final determination had been made.Traditionally, the bureau would study existing statutes, decide that the law permits it to regulate bump stocks and then submit a proposed rule to the Justice Department. The deputy attorney general’s office would make modifications before the budget office reviewed and approved the rule change, and it would then be published in the Federal Register.The regulation of bump stocks has strayed from that pattern. The bureau determined in 2010 that it could not regulate the devices because they could not be defined as machine guns, which are regulated under the National Firearms Act, the law that regulates firearms in the United States. To prohibit bump stocks, the agency had to contradict that earlier position, essentially saying the statute had not changed but could be read differently to include such a ban.After the Las Vegas shooting, in which 58 concertgoers were killed by a gunman using firearms outfitted with bump stocks, public pressure grew to ban them. Justice Department and A.T.F. officials privately stuck by their earlier conclusion that they could not outlaw bump stocks, but with little appetite to tackle gun policy in Congress, Mr. Sessions asked the A.T.F. to review its determination.Agencies periodically scrutinize earlier rulings and change interpretations. What set apart the bump stock evaluation, according to former bureau officials, was Mr. Trump’s overt political pressure.“No disrespect intended, but I’m sure President Trump has no idea what exactly the authority is for A.T.F. or the D.O.J. to ban these things,” said Bradley A. Buckles, who was the head of the bureau from 1999 to 2004. “In all honesty, he doesn’t know what his authority is in that regard.”And in altering its 2010 interpretation made under former President Barack Obama, the bureau could be subject to lawsuits that tie up a bump stock ban in the courts. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____4. “We’re doing it for the kids.”That was a Salvadoran woman we interviewed in the Texas border city of McAllen, explaining why she had crossed the Rio Grande on an inflatable mattress with her two sons. She said she was fleeing the threat of gang violence. Above, other migrants detained by Border Patrol agents near McAllen.Some locals questioned President Trump’s plan to deploy the National Guard to the border. They said there was no security crisis, only the daily challenge of meeting the basic needs of migrants who arrive.____5. The Trump administration is also cracking down on H-1B visas, which allow skilled workers to enter the U.S. It plans to rescind a program that allowed spouses of those visa holders to work.That would force thousands of Indian women — many of them highly educated and with sought-after skills — to leave their jobs. (The majority of H1-B visas go to Indian nationals. Here’s how the visas work.)“We were happily working and feeling settled down with the life we wanted,” said Deepika Jalakam, above with her parents and daughter. “Suddenly, this announcement came and there is instability.”____6. Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s impeached and ousted president, was sentenced to 24 years in prison on charges of bribery, coercion and abuse of power.The corruption scandal exposed the deep ties between the country’s government and huge businesses like Samsung.Ms. Park did not appear in court. Her supporters, mostly elderly South Koreans, have insisted on her innocence, and hundreds of them protested outside the courthouse, above.____7. Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soldiers faced off along the Gaza border for the second Friday in a row. The demonstrations were smaller than last week’s, with a lower death toll: The Gaza Health Ministry said at least 10 Palestinians had been killed, and hundreds wounded.The protests are aimed at Israel’s blockade of Gaza, which began after Hamas seized control in 2007. Our reporters say the demonstrators have already achieved a crucial aim: changing the international conversation to one in which Gaza is portrayed as a prison, with Israel as the jailer.____8. Can architecture help protect human rights? A firm called Forensic Architecture, based in London, is using tools of the trade to investigate violence and armed conflict around the world.Throughout his presidential campaign Donald J. Trump extolled his business acumen and management skills, and just before his inauguration he insisted the transition to his administration was going “very, very smoothly.”Yet so chaotic was his first year in office that in January, after publication of the Michael Wolff tell-all, “Fire and Fury,” the president had to publicly defend himself as a “stable genius.”The White House suffered a staff turnover rate of 34 percent during Mr. Trump’s first year, a rate that would be unfathomable at nearly any for-profit enterprise. Even by political standards, it’s off the charts — triple that of the Obama administration, and twice that of Ronald Reagan, the previous record-holder — according to a study by the Brookings Institution.And that was before the recent messy departure of Rob Porter as staff secretary in the wake of spousal abuse allegations, or the announcement on Wednesday by the White House communications director Hope Hicks — the fourth person to hold the job — that she, too, was leaving.Now at least one White House faction wants Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser and National Economic Council director — and a relative island of calm and stability — to replace John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, who was widely criticized for bungling the Porter affair. If so, he would become the president’s third chief of staff in just 14 months. But in this chaotic environment, for every rumor that Mr. Cohn is about to be promoted, there is one that he is about to resign.With over a full year under Mr. Trump’s belt, and his unorthodox management style fully in evidence, I asked several experts to assess the president’s abilities as a manager.“It’s much worse than I expected,” said Jeffrey Pfeffer, professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and the author of “Power: Why Some People Have It and Others Don’t.”“The most important thing you need as a chief executive is the ability to hire and retain talent,” Mr. Pfeffer said. “Trump said he’d get all these great people to work for him. But the rate of departures is unprecedented. Either he hired badly, or he hired well but couldn’t retain them. Either way, this reflects badly on his leadership.”WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.One area where Indianapolis stands out also happens to be one of Amazon’s top priorities, according to its proposal: “A stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure.”Indianapolis may be the most business-friendly city in the country, Mr. Stutz said. Both Indiana’s governor, Eric Holcomb, a Republican, and the city’s mayor, Joe Hogsett, a Democrat, showed up for the opening of the Salesforce tower, and when it comes to promoting business, partisan gridlock is all but unknown in the state. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.• Finding a place at the barOur Food section discusses blended scotch, which is seeking a role beyond legacy drinkers and cocktails.• Best of late-night TVNoting the administration’s turnover rate, Jimmy Kimmel said, “Trump goes through cabinet members like he goes through cheeseburgers and Aqua Net: fast.”And two books about Vice President Mike Pence’s pet bunny, Marlon Bundo, were published this week. One is a picture book. The other, the brainchild of John Oliver, is a gay romance.• Quotation of the dayWASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”Mr. Trump’s argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.Jimmy Carter endured significant political damage when his confidant and budget director, Bert Lance, was accused of banking irregularities. Even putting aside the Iran-contra scandal and the Monica S. Lewinsky affair, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton were besieged by investigations of their aides unrelated to them. In Reagan’s era, it became known as the “sleaze factor.” Mr. Clinton’s team drew the scrutiny of six independent counsels other than Kenneth W. Starr.In the current case, the targets so far have included not just a “coffee boy,” as Mr. Papadopoulos was described by an adviser to Mr. Trump, but the president’s top two campaign officials and national security adviser. While Mr. Trump has dismissed the relevance of allegations against Mr. Manafort because they involved business dealings before the campaign, the latest indictment claims that he was scheming to defraud banks while serving as Mr. Trump’s chairman.Moreover, it remains unclear why he volunteered to work for Mr. Trump’s campaign without pay at a time when he was experiencing significant financial pressure.Mr. Trump’s defenders have focused on questioning the original basis for the investigation, accusing the F.B.I. of misconduct in relying on an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy hired by investigators working for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign.To the extent that Mr. Mueller is exploring whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey, the president’s defenders contend that under the Constitution, he has the power to dismiss executive branch officials and dictate their work. They also point to testimony by Mr. Comey and other officials who said the investigation was not impeded.Therefore, they argue, the original order appointing Mr. Mueller was itself invalid and should be revoked.In the meantime, they are left to interpret the clues from Mr. Mueller’s actions just like everyone else. David B. Rivkin Jr., a former White House and Justice Department lawyer under Reagan and President George Bush, said the totality of Mr. Mueller’s actions still did not add up to a threat to Mr. Trump.“It doesn’t make sense to unfold piecemeal an indictment of Russian entities and Russians if you have any hope of building a collusion case. It makes no logical sense,” he said. “To me, at least, what he’s done does underscore that there’s no collusion there. That leaves him with the obstruction of justice narrative which I think is constitutionally flawed and isn’t going to go anywhere.”Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”With over 1,700 Salesforce employees there, Indianapolis is now home to the company’s second-largest office outside its San Francisco headquarters. In May the company moved into the Salesforce tower in downtown Indianapolis, the tallest building in Indiana, representing a commitment from the company that “we’re here to stay,” Mr. Stutz said.Salesforce is eager to move more employees to Indianapolis because of its much lower costs and a good quality of life. “This is one of the few places where you can buy a beautiful home in the city for under $200,000,” he said.WASHINGTON — President Trump on Sunday abandoned a strategy of showing deference to the special counsel examining Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, lashing out at what he characterized as a partisan investigation and alarming Republicans who feared he might seek to shut it down.Mr. Trump has long suggested that allegations that he or his campaign conspired with Russia to influence the election were a “hoax” and part of a “witch hunt,” but until this weekend he had largely heeded the advice of lawyers who counseled him not to directly attack Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for fear of antagonizing prosecutors.“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”The attack on Mr. Mueller, a longtime Republican and former F.B.I. director appointed by a Republican president, George W. Bush, drew immediate rebukes from some members of the party who expressed concern that it might presage an effort to fire the special counsel. Such a move, they warned, would give the appearance of a corrupt attempt to short-circuit the investigation and set off a bipartisan backlash.“If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency, because we’re a rule-of-law nation,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, an ally of the president, said on “State of the Union” on CNN. “When it comes to Mr. Mueller, he is following the evidence where it takes him, and I think it’s very important he be allowed to do his job without interference, and there are many Republicans who share my view.”Among them was Senator Jeff Flake of Arizona, a sharp critic of Mr. Trump who appeared on the same program. “People see that as a massive red line that can’t be crossed,” he said. He urged Mr. Trump’s advisers to prevail on him not to fire Mr. Mueller. “We have confidence in Mueller.”Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said if the president was innocent, he should “act like it” and leave Mr. Mueller alone, warning of dire repercussions if the president tried to fire the special counsel.“I would just counsel the president — it’s going to be a very, very long, bad 2018, and it’s going to be distracting from other things that he wants to do and he was elected do,” Mr. Gowdy said on “Fox News Sunday.” “Let it play out its course. If you’ve done nothing wrong, you should want the investigation to be as fulsome and thorough as possible.”The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, issued a statement likewise warning Mr. Trump to back off. “As the speaker has always said, Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman. His counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, had no comment, as did a number of other top Senate Republicans.Late in the day, the White House tried to douse the furor. “In response to media speculation and related questions being posed to the administration, the White House yet again confirms that the president is not considering or discussing the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller,” Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, said in a statement.The president’s tweet followed a statement by Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, John Dowd, on Saturday calling on the Justice Department to end the special counsel investigation. Mr. Trump followed up that evening with a tweet arguing that “the Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”The two weekend tweets were the first time Mr. Trump has used Mr. Mueller’s name on Twitter, not counting a message he once retweeted, and reflected what advisers called a growing impatience fueled by anger that the investigation was now looking at his business activities.The New York Times reported last week that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed records from the Trump Organization. Mr. Trump’s lawyers met with Mr. Mueller’s team last week and received more details about how the special counsel is approaching the investigation, including the scope of his interest in the Trump Organization.For months, Mr. Trump had been reassured by his lawyers that the investigation would wrap up soon — by Thanksgiving, then Christmas, then New Year’s. But with the expansion into Mr. Trump’s business, it seems increasingly clear that Mr. Mueller is not ready to conclude his inquiry.The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”Given the deficit-exploding impact of the new tax code, it’s difficult to see where the money will come from. In any event, after this trip, I’ll settle for something far more modest: basic improvements to public transportation.Regional transportation infrastructure is largely the responsibility of state and local governments, and it’s especially complicated in places like the New York metropolitan area, which includes multiple jurisdictions and agencies. But just as the federal government spurred the creation of the Interstate highway system under President Dwight Eisenhower, it could revitalize the nation’s transportation infrastructure — without blowing up the deficit — with a combination of better regulation, creative incentives, loans and grants. Many transportation projects are sound investments that can pay for themselves.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.While Mr. Gates joined the campaign with Mr. Manafort, his longtime business partner and mentor, he stayed after Mr. Manafort was fired. He rode on Mr. Trump’s campaign plane and served as liaison to the Republican National Committee. After the election victory, he joined the transition as a right hand to Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the president’s close friend who ran the inaugural operation.The fact that Mr. Gates was allowed to plead guilty to just two relatively lower-level charges indicated to legal experts that he must have something of value for Mr. Mueller. The presumption in Mr. Trump’s circle is that Mr. Gates may not have any incriminating information about the president but could be a dangerous witness against Mr. Manafort, who in turn could threaten Mr. Trump.Mr. Manafort participated in a meeting in June 2016 along with Donald Trump Jr., the candidate’s son, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, with a Russian lawyer on the promise of receiving incriminating information about Hillary Clinton on behalf of Russia’s government.Mr. Manafort also reportedly offered during the campaign to give “private briefings” to Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch allied with President Vladimir V. Putin who claimed Mr. Manafort owed him $19 million. Prosecutors are interested in learning how a Republican convention platform plank on Russia’s intervention in Ukraine was watered down.On the other hand, Mr. Trump’s defenders said Mr. Gates’s credibility as a witness may be tainted by the fact that one of the charges he pleaded guilty to was lying to the F.B.I. even as he was negotiating his plea deal. Ty Cobb, the White House special counsel, has said that Mr. Manafort has no damaging information against Mr. Trump. Mr. Manafort insisted again on Friday that he was innocent and would fight the “untrue piled up charges.”Mr. Trump’s argument that none of this has anything to do with him resonates with many of his supporters, who have echoed his repeated insistence that there was no collusion with Russia. But being surrounded by people who are prosecuted has damaged other presidents even when they were not directly implicated.Jimmy Carter endured significant political damage when his confidant and budget director, Bert Lance, was accused of banking irregularities. Even putting aside the Iran-contra scandal and the Monica S. Lewinsky affair, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton were besieged by investigations of their aides unrelated to them. In Reagan’s era, it became known as the “sleaze factor.” Mr. Clinton’s team drew the scrutiny of six independent counsels other than Kenneth W. Starr.In the current case, the targets so far have included not just a “coffee boy,” as Mr. Papadopoulos was described by an adviser to Mr. Trump, but the president’s top two campaign officials and national security adviser. While Mr. Trump has dismissed the relevance of allegations against Mr. Manafort because they involved business dealings before the campaign, the latest indictment claims that he was scheming to defraud banks while serving as Mr. Trump’s chairman.Moreover, it remains unclear why he volunteered to work for Mr. Trump’s campaign without pay at a time when he was experiencing significant financial pressure.Mr. Trump’s defenders have focused on questioning the original basis for the investigation, accusing the F.B.I. of misconduct in relying on an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy hired by investigators working for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign.To the extent that Mr. Mueller is exploring whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey, the president’s defenders contend that under the Constitution, he has the power to dismiss executive branch officials and dictate their work. They also point to testimony by Mr. Comey and other officials who said the investigation was not impeded.Therefore, they argue, the original order appointing Mr. Mueller was itself invalid and should be revoked. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• Against aides’ advice, President Trump congratulated Vladimir Putin on Tuesday for his victory in the Russian presidential election.The White House said the call, made five days after the U.S. imposed new sanctions on Russia, had focused on “shared interests.” They did not include election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Other leaders, foreign and American, have also congratulated Mr. Putin. But not the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell: “When I look at a Russian election, what I see is a lack of credibility in tallying the results. Calling him wouldn’t have been high on my list.”• Separately, Mr. Trump reinforced his commitment to the  Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, on Tuesday.• A suspect in the series of bombings that have terrorized the Texas capital died early today, blowing himself up in his vehicle as officers closed in on him, the authorities said.The suspect was a 24-year-old white man, the Austin police chief said at a predawn news conference. Officials did not rule out the possibility that the man, whom they did not identify, had accomplices.• He is believed to be involved in at least five bombs that have detonated this month in Austin and San Antonio, killing at least two people and wounding five. Here’s what we know about the bombings.• Regulators, prosecutors, politicians and investors are all asking whether the social network mishandled user data.The business model of Mark Zuckerberg’s company is under scrutiny after reports that a political consulting firm improperly obtained information on 50 million users.• The firm, Cambridge Analytica, suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, on Tuesday.• Starting today, however, 18 inches of snow could fall in New York City. Find the latest here.• Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, is the second woman this month to challenge efforts by allies of President Trump to bury stories about extramarital relationships.She is suing The National Enquirer’s parent company — whose chief executive is a friend of the president’s — which paid her $150,000 to keep quiet.• Separately on Tuesday, a ruling in a defamation lawsuit against Mr. Trump raised the possibility of a public airing of other accusations of sexual misconduct.• The Illinois governor’s race could become one of the most expensive in history.After winning their parties’ nominations on Tuesday, the Republican incumbent, Bruce Rauner, a private-equity executive, will face J. B. Pritzker, a Democrat and billionaire philanthropist, this fall. Here are full results from the primary.• In a congressional race that became a fight between moderate and progressive Democrats, the longtime representative Daniel Lipinski narrowly defeated a challenger from the left, Marie Newman. A Republican denounced by his party as a Nazi also won.• “If you don’t think this can happen at your school, you are sadly mistaken.”A school superintendent in Maryland had a familiar warning after a shooting left the suspect dead and two students wounded. The police said the gunman, a 17-year-old student, had been confronted by an armed deputy at Great Mills High.• The shooting occurred a little over a month after 17 people were killed at a school in Florida. A nationwide march in support of gun control is planned for this weekend.• In trade talks with Mexico and Canada, the U.S. is pushing to limit warning labels on junk food.• Lawyers for Bill O’Reilly and Fox News  argued for the dismissal of the defamation lawsuit brought by three women who reached harassment settlements.Separately, a longtime analyst for Fox News, Ralph Peters, is leaving, telling colleagues that the network had become “a mere propaganda machine.”• U.S. stocks were up on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Renovating? Here’s some advice.• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.• Recipe of the day: Get through Wednesday with this no-bake mango dessert.An inside look at the media diet of Times staff members: • “If you’ve ever seen a mind-blowing photograph of Saturn’s rings, Jupiter’s swirls or the heart shape across Pluto, it’s thanks in no small part to NASA’s Deep Space Network. Shannon Stirone takes you behind the scenes of the infrastructure, which she describes as “worn out” and threatened by insufficient funding and outdated hardware.” [Longreads] — Michael Roston, senior staff editor, Science• “A magazine started by Elizaveta Osetinskay, a Russian journalist based in the U.S., found and interviewed one of the scientists involved in developing the nerve agents known as Novichok. The scientist, Vladimir Uglev, both confirms the existence of the substances (which some Russian officials said didn’t exist) and points out potential problems in Western accounts of its use against a former Russian spy in Britain.” [The Bell] — Ellen Barry, London correspondent• A war that hasn’t endedFifteen years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, The Times is reintroducing At War, which began in 2009 as a blog for our journalists and contributors in Baghdad.The new iteration will continue to tell stories of the American war experience while expanding its coverage to global conflicts. In the first essay, a veteran Marine lieutenant recalls leading tanks into Baghdad in 2003.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”In the last 10 days, Mr. Mueller has indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies on suspicion of secretly trying to help Mr. Trump win the election, added new charges against Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, and secured a guilty plea from a lawyer tied to Mr. Manafort’s business dealings with pro-Russian figures. The guilty plea on Friday by Rick Gates, the former deputy chairman, raised the pressure on Mr. Manafort.Mr. Trump is correct that nothing produced publicly by Mr. Mueller to date has claimed any wrongdoing by the president nor any illegal collaboration with the Russians seeking to influence the 2016 election. The indictment of the Russians — who are accused of flooding Facebook and other social media with disinformation and propaganda — cited only contact with “unwitting individuals” connected with Mr. Trump’s campaign.The charges against Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates depict an expansive money-laundering and fraud operation stemming from their work for Ukrainian leaders aligned with Moscow, not from their involvement in the campaign. Michael T. Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, and George Papadopoulos, a former campaign adviser, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about their contacts with Russians or intermediaries but not to criminal acts related to collusion.John M. Dowd, the president’s private lawyer, pointed to Mr. Trump’s cooperation with the investigation as evidence that he had nothing to hide. He noted that the White House had voluntarily turned over more than 20,000 pages to Mr. Mueller, including documents related to Mr. Flynn and Mr. Comey, and the campaign provided 1.4 million pages.More than 20 White House officials, including eight members of the counsel’s office, voluntarily gave interviews to the special counsel or congressional investigators, as did 17 campaign employees and 11 others affiliated with the campaign, he added.“I give great credit to the president for his extraordinary cooperation with the special counsel,” Mr. Dowd said.Still, as the pileup at the courthouse indicates, allies of Mr. Trump acknowledged that the investigation had taken a toll.“The good news for the White House is that more than 18 months since the F.B.I. probe began, there is still no evidence of Russian collusion,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump. “The bad news is that the special counsel has a scorched-earth prosecution aimed at crushing the president’s associates.”“I don’t think the president is worried about the investigation himself,” he added, “but it clearly bothers him that people are being prosecuted simply because they worked for his campaign.”Inside the White House, officials expressed calm resignation on Friday as Mr. Gates marched into the courthouse. But there was low-grade concern out of recognition that Mr. Gates was in a lot of meetings over a long period of time.A year ago, with an impressive roster of Goldman Sachs alumni on their way to top White House positions, the return of “Government Sachs” was in full swing.The newly inaugurated President Trump tapped Steven T. Mnuchin as treasury secretary, Gary D. Cohn as director of the National Economic Council and Dina Powell as White House adviser. Ms. Powell later served as both deputy national security adviser for strategy and senior counselor for economic initiatives.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”In the midst of a long-running bull market that is now reaching momentous proportions, most investors may well have forgotten that just two years ago, during the first five trading days of 2016, the market dropped 6 percent. It was the worst five-day start to a year ever and supposedly a harbinger of bad times.We know where that ended. Spurred by Donald Trump’s election that November, market indexes surged to record levels and went far higher this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 19 percent in 2017, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 25 percent, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite leapt 28 percent.There wasn’t a single day last year when the S.&P. 500 fluctuated more than 2 percent, a level of low volatility unseen since the mid-1960s, according to James Stack, a market historian and president of InvesTech Research.In a rare convergence, investor euphoria spread across the globe. A measure of market performance, the MSCI All Country World Index, gained 22.7 percent last year, closing at a record high. And so far this year, stocks have continued their advance. On Thursday, the Dow broke the 25,000 barrier for the first time, and technology stocks are soaring to new highs. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are adding a whiff of bubblelike mania.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a leading anti-abortion group, said the president’s directives amounted to taking “a monumental stand.”For someone who once described himself as “very pro-choice,” Mr. Trump’s transformation into a champion of the anti-abortion cause is a remarkable political evolution.Anti-abortion activists and Christian conservative leaders have remained one of his most loyal and deferential constituencies, even as he faced accusations that would have been the undoing of other politicians. This week, as the president brushed off allegations that his personal lawyer paid a pornographic-film actress with whom he was said to be involved with $130,000 in hush money, the religious right was full of praise for the president.“President Trump has never pretended to be a Bible-banging evangelical,” said Penny Young Nance, president of Concerned Women for America, a Christian conservative organization. “He is who he is. His policies speak for themselves.”Besides his executive orders, conservatives are celebrating one of the most ambitious efforts ever undertaken by a White House to reshape the federal judiciary.Mr. Trump has appointed judges to appellate courts at a rate faster than any new president since Richard M. Nixon, and the Republican-controlled Senate is working to speed the approval of Mr. Trump’s lower-level district court nominees. Abortion rights groups have objected to many of the nominees.Mr. Trump’s policies could have serious consequences for abortion providers like Planned Parenthood, which has become a target of the Trump administration and the Republican-controlled Congress.The new directive Mr. Trump issued on Friday could prove especially problematic. Planned Parenthood says that 60 percent of its patients receive Medicaid assistance. And the new rules would make it easier for states to bar Medicaid funding from going to the women’s health provider.Among Amazon’s 20 finalist cities for its coveted second headquarters are several that would have to be called long shots: Columbus, Ohio, Nashville and Miami, to name three.And then there’s Indianapolis.In the frenzy of coverage and speculation that accompanied Amazon’s initial announcement of a North America-wide competition for the new headquarters, I couldn’t find anyone who cited Indianapolis as a likely finalist.This week the Irish betting site Paddy Power had Indianapolis tied for last among the finalists, with the odds of being chosen at 20 to 1. (Boston and Atlanta have been vying for the best odds, with Boston on top this week at 2 to 1.)The commercial real estate firm CBRE ranked Indianapolis only 33rd among 50 American cities for what CBRE calls “tech talent.” Amazon has cited access to highly trained and educated technology workers as one of its top priorities.And then there’s what might be called the “cool” factor — which Indianapolis, at first glance, would seem to be lacking.Bob Stutz, chief executive of Salesforce.com’s Marketing Cloud, which is based in Indianapolis, came to the fast-growing company from Microsoft, and lived in Amazon’s hometown, Seattle. When Salesforce asked him to move to Indianapolis, his first thought was, “You’ve got to be kidding.”But if Mr. Stutz’s experience is any indication, the oddsmakers may have to recalculate Indianapolis’s chances. Since moving to the city 16 months ago, Mr. Stutz said, he has been “amazed.”“Indianapolis has done what may be the best urban redevelopment I’ve seen in this country,” he said. “Everyone here is aligned with making Indianapolis a successful place for technology companies. The people are tremendous, very friendly, polite, with a strong work ethic.”(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Rising tensions between China and the U.S. pummeled stocks, as investors began to take seriously the risk of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. The latest U.S. jobs report didn’t help matters — it showed that job growth slowed in March.Our correspondent in Shanghai says there’s a fundamental question at the heart of the dispute: Which country is more willing to endure short-term pain for the long-term gain of playing a leading role in high-tech industries?____2. The White House imposed new sanctions on seven of Russia’s richest oligarchs — and 17 top government officials. It’s the latest effort to punish the inner circle of President Vladimir Putin, above, for interference in the 2016 election and other alleged misdeeds.And Facebook announced that it would require political advertisers to verify their identities. The rule is meant to prevent foreign interference in domestic politics, like the paid posts by Russian “trolls” ahead of the 2016 election.____3. John Kelly, above, President Trump’s chief of staff, urged him last week to fire Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. leader mired in ethics questions. But Mr. Trump has resisted doing so.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Pruitt’s success in achieving items on the president’s agenda — including rolling back a large number of environmental regulations — may weigh heavily as a counterbalance to allegations that he misused taxpayer dollars.“He likes the work product,” she said of Mr. Trump.____Few investors had more at stake in Broadcom’s $117 billion hostile takeover bid for the chip maker Qualcomm than Jerome L. Dodson, the founder and chief executive of Parnassus Investments in San Francisco, and chief portfolio manager for the Parnassus Endeavor mutual fund.Endeavor owns 8.3 million Qualcomm shares, making it one of the company’s largest shareholders. A week ago the shares were worth over $500 million and accounted for nearly 10 percent of Endeavor’s assets, a highly concentrated position.By pursuing a mix of value and socially responsible investing — avoiding companies that harm the environment, and favoring companies that treat their employees well — Mr. Dodson has emerged as one of his generation’s most successful investors. Morningstar ranks his Endeavor fund first among large capitalization blended mutual funds over 10-, five- and three-year periods.Then, this week, President Trump killed Broadcom’s takeover bid on national security grounds, and Qualcomm shares plunged. They dropped more than 5 percent on Tuesday, a $25 million hit to the Endeavor fund.Yet when I spoke to Mr. Dodson this week, he was not only serenely unruffled by the president’s decision — he applauded it.“There’s no doubt I would have made a quick profit if the Broadcom deal had gone through,” he said. “But as a shareholder, I voted against it.”That’s partly because, “as a citizen, I didn’t like the deal,” he said. Broadcom typically slashes costs, especially research and development, and the company said it would do exactly that if it acquired Qualcomm. “In the long run that’s not good for the country or for society,” Mr. Dodson said.He agreed with the Trump administration’s assessment that, by cutting Qualcomm’s research costs, Broadcom would be assisting Chinese rivals in the global race for dominance in 5G communications technology.But as an investor, his reasoning can pretty much be reduced to one word: Apple.Apple has traditionally been one of Qualcomm’s biggest customers, along with Samsung and every other major handset company. But the two technology giants are also embroiled in an epic battle over licensing fees for Qualcomm’s patented technology, with profound implications not only for Qualcomm’s business model and Apple’s profit margins, but for the future of wireless communication.If Qualcomm and Apple can just bury the hatchet, Mr. Dodson reasons, Qualcomm’s revenues would soar, and its stock price would climb well past Broadcom’s offering price of $79 a share. By Mr. Dodson’s reckoning, once Apple resumes paying Qualcomm, the chip maker will be worth at least $84 a share, “which is why Broadcom’s offer didn’t really engage my attention,” he said.That, however, is a big “if,” given the intractable positions both sides have staked out.At the heart of the dispute is the way Qualcomm calculates the licensing fee it charges customers, which is a percentage of the cost of the net selling price of the entire handset — and not the price of the chip. That means that Apple, a high-cost producer whose iPhone X sells for as much as $1,000, has paid much higher licensing fees than low-cost competitors using exactly the same chip set.Apple has called the arrangement an “extortion scheme.” It infuriates Apple that Qualcomm has, in effect, been subsidizing its low-cost competitors, including the very Chinese companies that Mr. Trump says he is so concerned about.Qualcomm has countered that its intellectual property makes many of the iPhones’ distinctive features possible, features that low-cost competitors haven’t replicated, and therefore Qualcomm deserves a percentage of the cost of the entire device.Mr. Dodson made little immediate headway when he met with a delegation of top Qualcomm officials late last month and pressed his case for a settlement with Apple. The officials, including the chief executive, Steve Mollenkopf, and Paul Jacobs, a Qualcomm founder and, until recently, executive chairman, visited Mr. Dodson in San Francisco to make their case against the Broadcom bid.In Mr. Dodson’s account of the meeting, he urged the Qualcomm executives to settle with Apple rather than risk alienating it as a customer over the long term. But Qualcomm officials said that Apple was demanding more than they were prepared to give and that, on an engineering level, relations with Apple remained good. They assured him that eventually they would reach a settlement, revenues would normalize and Qualcomm stock would respond.Still, “I’d like to see them budge” on the licensing issue, Mr. Dodson said. “I can see Apple’s point.”But if Qualcomm stopped charging Apple a percentage of the device’s cost, it would probably have to extend similar terms to all its major customers. It recently amended its agreement with Samsung without abandoning its approach to license fees. At the meeting, Qualcomm officials told Mr. Dodson they offered Apple similar terms, but Apple rejected them.A Qualcomm spokeswoman declined to comment, as did an Apple spokeswoman.Long-simmering tensions between Qualcomm and Apple reached a boiling point in 2016, when Qualcomm halted rebates it was giving Apple. Qualcomm claimed Apple had violated the terms of the rebate agreement by cooperating with South Korea’s investigation into what Samsung and others said was exclusionary conduct by Qualcomm. Apple responded by withholding the license fees it paid manufacturers of iPhones, who in turn stopped passing on the payments to Qualcomm.Lawsuits and counterclaims erupted, and Qualcomm reduced its revenue estimates by $500 million a year.While Apple has continued to buy and deploy the latest Qualcomm chips, it also reached out to a rival chip maker, Intel, which began supplying an alternative to Qualcomm’s chip for the iPhone 7. (That phone, the iPhone 8 and the X may contain either a Qualcomm or an Intel chip.)Qualcomm claims that Apple has compromised the performance of Qualcomm-equipped handsets in order to mask their superiority over the Intel-equipped phones. (Both Intel and Apple have vehemently denied the claims.)Numerous lawsuits are now well underway in the United States, with some expected to go to trial later this year. Regulators in the European Union, Taiwan, South Korea and China have ruled that Qualcomm’s licensing practices are unlawful and have levied fines, decisions that Qualcomm is appealing. In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission is conducting its own investigation.While armies of patent lawyers fight over the rival claims, investors have already rendered a verdict. Qualcomm shares, after peaking at more than $80 in 2014, dropped by nearly 50 percent, hitting a low of $44 in 2016.Qualcomm’s precipitous decline is what attracted Mr. Dodson’s attention along with other so-called value investors, who look for stocks trading below their intrinsic value. He said his fund’s average cost per share for its Qualcomm position was about $56, so the fund was still ahead even after the deal collapsed this week. On Thursday, Qualcomm was trading at around $60.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.“Federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution, no matter how horrendous the underlying attacks or morally compelling the plaintiffs’ claims,” Judge John G. Koeltl, who ordinarily sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan, wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for the solicitor general’s office, said the administration was committed to fighting terrorism.“The United States condemns acts of terror in the strongest terms, and the Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting those who commit terrorist attacks against innocent human beings to the fullest extent that the law allows,” she said in a statement. “The United States sympathizes deeply with the American families who, in 2004, sued the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization for acts of terrorism committed against their loved ones between 2002 and 2004.”“The court of appeals decided, however,” she said, “that the suit was not consistent with due process under the Constitution, and its decision does not meet the usual standards for Supreme Court review. We will continue to support wherever possible all lawful actions to fight terrorism and provide redress to the victims of terrorist attacks and their families.”When the Supreme Court asks the solicitor general for his or her views on whether to hear an appeal, as it does about 25 times each term, it presumably wants to know both whether the case warrants the justices’ attention and whether the party seeking review is right.Mr. Francisco gave only half an answer, taking no position on whether the appeals court’s decision was correct. According to Mr. Olson’s brief, “research revealed only one other instance since 2014 in which the solicitor general did not state a view on the merits” in similar circumstances.The two sides disagree about how many cases will be thwarted by the appeals court’s ruling. “It is far from clear that the court of appeals’ approach will foreclose many claims that would otherwise go forward in federal courts,” Mr. Francisco wrote for the administration.WASHINGTON — In a fiery speech to supporters on Friday, President Trump went after his vanquished opponent from 2016. “We had a crooked candidate,” he declared. The crowd responded with a signature chant from the campaign trail: “Lock her up!”About three hours later and 10 miles to the north, Mr. Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, who helped put him in the White House, arrived at a federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to being crooked and face the prospect that the authorities will now lock him up.With each passing day, Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, seems to add another brick to the case he is building — one more indictment, one more interview, one more guilty plea. Mr. Trump and his advisers insist they are not worried because so far none of the charges implicate the president. Yet no one outside Mr. Mueller’s office knows for sure where he is heading and the flurry of recent action seems to be inexorably leading to a larger target.“When you put that all together, the White House should be extremely worried,” said Benjamin Wittes, editor in chief of Lawfare, a blog that analyzes legal issues, and a friend of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was leading the Russia investigation until being fired by Mr. Trump last year. “You have to ask the question about whether there is a certain measure of self-delusion going on here.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”The Sunday before last, as I emerged tired and dispirited from Penn Station after a two-plus hour trip from the Newark airport, I found myself pondering President Trump’s campaign pledge “to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment,” a theme he raised  in this year’s State of the Union address and is expected to address again next week.A year ago, I embraced the newly elected president’s initiative, calling on him “to build something awe-inspiring.”WASHINGTON — The Trump administration escalated what had been a war of words over California’s immigration agenda, filing a lawsuit late Tuesday that amounted to a pre-emptive strike against the liberal state’s so-called sanctuary laws.The Justice Department sued California; Gov. Jerry Brown; and the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, over three state laws passed in recent months, saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to do their jobs and deport criminals who were born outside the United States. The Justice Department called the laws unconstitutional and asked a judge to block them.The lawsuit was the department’s boldest attack yet against California, one of the strongest opponents of the Trump administration’s efforts to curb immigration. It also served as a warning to Democratic lawmakers and elected officials nationwide who have enacted sanctuary policies that provide protections for undocumented immigrants.“The Department of Justice and the Trump administration are going to fight these unjust, unfair and unconstitutional policies that have been imposed on you,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions planned to say on Wednesday at a law enforcement event in Sacramento, according to prepared remarks. “I believe that we are going to win.”The battle pits President Trump and Mr. Sessions, immigration hard-liners, against Mr. Brown and Mr. Becerra, who have emerged as  outspoken adversaries who have helped energize opposition to Mr. Trump and vowed to preserve the progressive values that they believe California embodies.The lawsuit claims that the statutes “reflect a deliberate effort by California to obstruct the United States’ enforcement of federal immigration law.” It also says the laws regulate private entities that want to cooperate with the federal authorities and “impede consultation and communication between federal and state law enforcement officials.”Mr. Brown called the lawsuit a “political stunt.”“At a time of unprecedented political turmoil, Jeff Sessions has come to California to further divide and polarize America,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Jeff, these political stunts may be the norm in Washington, but they don’t work here. SAD!!!”California began battling the Trump administration even before Mr. Trump took office, standing in opposition on a number of issues, including marijuana, environmental regulations and taxes. But immigration has proved to be the most contentious fight, with local officials assuring undocumented immigrants that they would do all they could to protect them.Last year, California enacted the sanctuary laws, which restrict when and how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration enforcement officers.Both Mr. Sessions and Mr. Trump have threatened to pull federal grant money from cities and states that have sanctuary laws to protect undocumented immigrants. They argue that the policies flout federal laws and help criminals evade deportation.And the Justice Department asked 23 jurisdictions across the country this year to provide documentation that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities, or receive a subpoena for the information. It is also exploring possible criminal charges for local politicians who enact sanctuary policies.The lawsuit filed on Tuesday evening in Federal District Court in Sacramento is the first against a local or state government over its immigration policies filed by the Justice Department under Mr. Sessions. Department officials said that they would not rule out the possibility of other lawsuits against local governments whose policies interfere with the federal government’s authority on immigration. Colorado, Illinois, New Mexico, Oregon and Vermont have state sanctuary laws, as do cities and counties in more than a dozen states, according to the Center for Immigration Studies.One, the California Values Act, strictly limits state and local agencies from sharing information with federal officers about criminals or suspects unless they have been convicted of serious crimes. The law, which took effect Jan. 1, was the centerpiece of the State Legislature’s effort to thwart the Trump administration’s immigration policies.Soon after the law was enacted, Thomas D. Homan, the acting director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said that the state should expect to see “a lot more deportation officers” and that elected officials who support the policy should be arrested.“We’ve got to start charging some of these politicians with crimes,” he said. “These politicians can’t make these decisions and be held unaccountable for people dying. I mean, we need to hold these politicians accountable for their actions.”Mr. Homan and three other immigration and border protection officials filed declarations with the suit claiming that California’s laws had already negatively affected their work.WASHINGTON — Days after 17 people were gunned down at a Florida high school last month, President Trump vowed to overhaul some of the nation’s gun laws, promising to “do more to protect our children.”Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.• “2.4 million new jobs” created since his election.• “Over 3 million workers have gotten tax-cut bonuses” and “rising wages.”• All thanks to “the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history.”Since the president has frequently complained that the media denies him credit for any of this, I thought it only fair to assess the degree to which the undeniably strong economy, low unemployment and surging stock market are because of Mr. Trump’s achievements, notably his sweeping tax bill.It turns out that’s no easy task, especially since Mr. Trump has only been president for a year, and the tax legislation is little more than a month old. Economists are still debating the impact on the economy of Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform legislation more than 30 years after its passage.“It’s not like chemistry or physics where you can do a controlled experiment and change one variable,” said Joel Slemrod, professor of economics and public policy at the University of Michigan, and co-author of a seminal study of the economic impact of the 1986 tax reform act. “We can never be entirely sure because we don’t know what would have happened without the tax act.”Even so, “there are specific things that are hard to imagine being attributed to anything else” other than the tax legislation, said Alan Auerbach, professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, and Professor Slemrod’s co-author on the study of the 1986 reform.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In the daily din of scandal and turmoil that has dominated President Trump’s first year in office, it can be easily overlooked how transformative he has been in using his executive powers to curtail abortion rights.As thousands of anti-abortion marchers gathered on the National Mall in Washington in the annual March for Life on Friday, Mr. Trump ordered his administration to make it easier for states to cut off money for Planned Parenthood clinics that offer health care to low-income women.The move capped a week of action by the White House that helped to further seal its relationship with the anti-abortion movement.In just the last few days, the president has expanded religious freedom protections for health care providers who object to performing procedures like abortion and gender reassignment surgery; created a new entity within the Department of Health and Human Services called the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division; ordered the department to more vigorously enforce existing laws that shield people in government-funded programs from violating their religious beliefs; and declared Monday “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.”“We are with you all the way,” Mr. Trump told marchers he had invited to the Rose Garden to mark the occasion. His remarks were broadcast to the Mall, the first time a president had addressed the annual March for Life on live television. In the past, they have either recorded messages or phoned in their remarks.The president’s enthusiasm did not go unnoticed or unappreciated.“He seemed so excited about it,” said Jeanne Mancini, the president of March for Life. “I could sort of see it looking up at the jumbotron.”Marjorie Dannenfelser, president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a leading anti-abortion group, said the president’s directives amounted to taking “a monumental stand.”For someone who once described himself as “very pro-choice,” Mr. Trump’s transformation into a champion of the anti-abortion cause is a remarkable political evolution.Anti-abortion activists and Christian conservative leaders have remained one of his most loyal and deferential constituencies, even as he faced accusations that would have been the undoing of other politicians. This week, as the president brushed off allegations that his personal lawyer paid a pornographic-film actress with whom he was said to be involved with $130,000 in hush money, the religious right was full of praise for the president.“President Trump has never pretended to be a Bible-banging evangelical,” said Penny Young Nance, president of Concerned Women for America, a Christian conservative organization. “He is who he is. His policies speak for themselves.”Besides his executive orders, conservatives are celebrating one of the most ambitious efforts ever undertaken by a White House to reshape the federal judiciary.Mr. Trump has appointed judges to appellate courts at a rate faster than any new president since Richard M. Nixon, and the Republican-controlled Senate is working to speed the approval of Mr. Trump’s lower-level district court nominees. Abortion rights groups have objected to many of the nominees.Mr. Trump’s policies could have serious consequences for abortion providers like Planned Parenthood, which has become a target of the Trump administration and the Republican-controlled Congress.WASHINGTON — Last June, the Supreme Court asked the Trump administration to file a brief. The justices wanted advice on whether to hear an appeal from victims of terrorist attacks in Israel.The request seemed unwelcome, and months passed without a response.In late October, two dozen senators — including Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts — wrote to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson. Get moving, the senators said.“We urge the administration to demonstrate its resolve to combat international terrorism and put American victims first by avoiding any unnecessary delay and responding as soon as possible to the Supreme Court’s request,” the letter said.Two more months passed. In December, President Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and said he would move the United States Embassy there. But still no brief.The plaintiffs in the case are American families who were the victims of terrorist attacks in and near Jerusalem. They won a $655.5 million court judgment in federal court in Manhattan against the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority. But an appeals court threw out the judgment, saying that Congress had overstepped its authority in enacting a law that allowed the families to sue.At the Supreme Court, another two months elapsed without a brief, and with them the possibility of having the case decided in the term that will end this June. Finally, after an extended internal debate that included officials from the Justice Department and a short-handed State Department, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed the requested document last month.In the end, the administration sided with the P.L.O.Mr. Francisco’s brief was a model of lawyerly minimalism. It urged the justices to turn down the victims’ appeal, saying it did not “warrant this court’s intervention at this time.” But the brief took no position on whether the plaintiffs’ legal arguments were correct.This did not sit well with Theodore B. Olson, a lawyer for the victims who served as solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration. In a brief filed last week, Mr. Olson called the administration’s position “astonishing” and “disturbingly disingenuous.”In an interview, Mr. Olson said his team had urged the solicitor general’s office to move fast enough to allow a decision this term. “We got no explanation” for the delay, he said. “It seemed unconscionably long.”“We’ve got 11 families who are victims of terrorism and who have suffered a lot,” Mr. Olson said. “This is so painful and difficult for them.”The families had sued the two Palestinian groups under the Antiterrorism Act of 1992, which was designed to allow such suits by giving federal courts jurisdiction over acts of international terrorism against Americans. After a seven-week jury trial in 2015 in Manhattan, the plaintiffs won $218.5 million, which was automatically tripled under the 1992 law.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, threw out the award, saying the trial court had lacked jurisdiction over the Palestinian groups because they did not have a substantial presence in the United States and had not set out specifically to kill and injure Americans.“Federal courts cannot exercise jurisdiction in a civil case beyond the limits prescribed by the due process clause of the Constitution, no matter how horrendous the underlying attacks or morally compelling the plaintiffs’ claims,” Judge John G. Koeltl, who ordinarily sits on the Federal District Court in Manhattan, wrote for the unanimous three-judge panel.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for the solicitor general’s office, said the administration was committed to fighting terrorism.“The United States condemns acts of terror in the strongest terms, and the Department of Justice is committed to prosecuting those who commit terrorist attacks against innocent human beings to the fullest extent that the law allows,” she said in a statement. “The United States sympathizes deeply with the American families who, in 2004, sued the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization for acts of terrorism committed against their loved ones between 2002 and 2004.”“The court of appeals decided, however,” she said, “that the suit was not consistent with due process under the Constitution, and its decision does not meet the usual standards for Supreme Court review. We will continue to support wherever possible all lawful actions to fight terrorism and provide redress to the victims of terrorist attacks and their families.”When the Supreme Court asks the solicitor general for his or her views on whether to hear an appeal, as it does about 25 times each term, it presumably wants to know both whether the case warrants the justices’ attention and whether the party seeking review is right.Mr. Francisco gave only half an answer, taking no position on whether the appeals court’s decision was correct. According to Mr. Olson’s brief, “research revealed only one other instance since 2014 in which the solicitor general did not state a view on the merits” in similar circumstances.The two sides disagree about how many cases will be thwarted by the appeals court’s ruling. “It is far from clear that the court of appeals’ approach will foreclose many claims that would otherwise go forward in federal courts,” Mr. Francisco wrote for the administration.The entire House of Representatives and 23 senators disagreed. In briefs filed last April, they said the appeals court’s ruling had cut the heart out of the statute, effectively nullifying it.When a federal court strikes down parts of a federal law, the solicitor general typically defends the statute. In his brief, Mr. Olson, a former solicitor general, used unusually harsh words in criticizing the current one for taking a different approach.With President Trump ordering steep new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum on Thursday, and with America’s trading partners threatening to retaliate, it looks as if Mr. Trump will get the trade war that he seems to want and that he thinks will be “easy” for the United States to win.“Trade wars aren’t so bad,” he had said at the White House on Wednesday.Which made me wonder: What trade wars does Mr. Trump have in mind?The most prominent trade war of the 20th century was ignited by the Smoot-Hawley Tariff act of 1930, which imposed steep tariffs on roughly 20,000 imported goods. Led by Canada, America’s trading partners retaliated with tariffs on United States exports, which plunged 61 percent from 1929 to 1933. The tariffs were repealed in 1934.Historians and economists continue to debate the extent of the damage to the global economy, but there is little disagreement that Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing trade war exacerbated and prolonged the hardships of the Great Depression. Many historians contend it also contributed to the rise of the Nazis and other fascist parties. There is almost universal agreement that no one “won” that trade war.Smoot-Hawley “was such a disaster that it’s held sway over American trade policy for over 80 years,” said Joshua Meltzer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who also teaches international trade law at Johns Hopkins University. “No one wants to repeat it.”He called Mr. Trump’s comments on trade wars “a dramatic departure” from economic orthodoxy.On the question of who wins, “the easy answer is to say that no one wins a trade war,” said Marc-William Palen, a professor of history at the University of Exeter in Britain and the author of “The ‘Conspiracy’ of Free Trade,” which examines trade rivalry between the United States and the British Empire in the 19th century. “But the more I reflect on it, it seems the winners are those nations that don’t take part.”Professor Palen cited the late-19th-century trade wars between Canada and the United States, which caused a precipitous drop in Canadian exports to America and led Canada to seek export markets in Britain. “The British Empire was the winner,” he said.Another “big winner” from a trade war it was not involved in, Professor Palen said, was Soviet Russia, which was largely shunned by Western trading partners after the 1917 revolution and the rise of communism, and was desperate for hard currency. The Smoot-Hawley tariffs, Professor Palen said, caused countries like Italy to abandon American imports and resume trading with the Soviets, forging trade links that persist today.A textbook case of one country’s “winning” a trade war occurred during the late 19th century when a newly unified Italy imposed steep tariffs on imports from France in order to spur domestic industrialization. France, which was much richer and stronger, retaliated with tariffs against Italy, and Italian exports to France collapsed. Even after Italy abandoned its tariffs, France continued to punish Italy for years with high tariffs.“France won in the sense that the trade war was brutal for the Italians,” said John Conybeare, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Iowa, and the author of the book “Trade Wars.”Professor Conybeare said an enduring lesson from that trade conflict was that if there is a wide disparity in economic strength between two countries, the stronger country will probably prevail. “Trump must be thinking that the large size of the U.S. domestic market gives it a lot of bargaining power in any trade dispute,” he said.While that may be true with much smaller, weaker countries, it is not the case with trading partners of equal or even larger size, such as the European Union and China. “Without that large disparity in economic strength, both sides lose,” Professor Conybeare said.He cited what have become known as the “chicken wars” of the early 1960s, a trade dispute set off when Germany and France imposed tariffs on American chicken. The United States retaliated by imposing tariffs on an array of goods, including French brandy, light trucks and Volkswagen buses. The United States even threatened to reduce its troop presence in Europe. Despite those pressures, the newly formed European Economic Community did not back down, and in that sense the United States “lost” the war.The biggest losers, though, were American and European consumers deprived of choices in the marketplace and forced to pay higher prices for what was available.There were also unintended consequences. American automakers, insulated from foreign competition by the tariffs, failed to modernize, improve quality or reduce costs, setting the stage for a decades-long decline, which for Chrysler and General Motors ended in bankruptcy.Much the same can be said of the United States steel industry, which since World War II has probably received more protection from tariffs and quotas than any other industry. “They just used the protection to raise prices, fatten profits, pay their executives more and avoid automating and reducing costs,” Professor Conybeare said. “They didn’t use the breathing space they gained to modernize. So much of the U.S. steel industry is using obsolete technology, which is why they can’t compete.”Decades of tariff protection have done little to stem the industry’s decline. Domestic steel employment dropped from 135,000 in 2000 to 83,600 in 2016, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.Much like Mr. Trump, President George W. Bush veered from Republican free trade orthodoxy in 2002 when he imposed tariffs of up to 30 percent on certain steel products to counter what he claimed was a surge of imports (Canada, Mexico and a number of developing countries were exempted). Although the tariffs were loudly condemned by many Republicans, politicians from steel-producing states supported the move and protectionist Democrats like Representative Richard Gephardt of Missouri argued that the measures did not go far enough.The European Union filed charges with the World Trade Organization, which ruled that the tariffs were illegal and discriminatory and authorized up to $2 billion in retaliatory measures. The E.U. threatened tariffs on a variety of American products, including autos and Florida oranges.Mr. Bush abandoned the tariffs in December 2003. He claimed that they had served their purpose, but subsequent studies suggested that they had little impact on employment in the industry and led to a loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs in industries that use steel as a raw material.Mr. Trump’s pronouncements on trade this week “sound like a very archaic, 19th-century argument,” Professor Palen said, referring to a time when protectionism was Republican orthodoxy and Representative William McKinley of Ohio, who later became president, was successfully promoting his Tariff Act of 1890, which raised the average duty on imports to nearly 50 percent.The act is widely considered by historians to have been a disaster that led to higher consumer prices and inflation and provoked a voter backlash. Republicans lost their House majority in 1890 and lost the White House and both houses of Congress in 1892. The act was repealed in 1894.In any trade war, as that example suggests, “the big losers are consumers, who are the vast majority of people,” Professor Palen said. “A few industries may benefit, but there are way more losers than winners. And the poor are the biggest losers of all. People like Trump may not care that much about paying a few extra dollars. But a lot of people don’t have that luxury.”House Speaker Paul D. Ryan called electric vehicle tax credits “money wasted on losers.” The head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Scott Pruitt, said he’d “do away” with renewable energy subsidies.During the presidential election campaign, Donald J. Trump disparaged renewable energy as “very, very expensive” and “not working on a large scale.” He said a wind farm in California looked like a “junk yard” and claimed wind power killed birds in vast numbers. As president, he pulled the United States out of the Paris climate change accord.So it’s no wonder that hardly anyone expected renewable energy subsidies to survive Republican tax reform. In the legislation the House of Representatives passed in November, Republicans drastically curtailed solar and wind power subsidies and put a stake in the heart of the tax credit for buyers of electric vehicles — all while preserving billions in subsidies for fossil fuels.Yet in the final tax bill Mr. Trump signed in December, there they are: the full panoply of tax incentives for renewable energy, as well as the $7,500 electric vehicle tax credit.Adam Jonas, an auto industry analyst for Morgan Stanley, called it a “surprise move” that suggests there may be deeper but little-recognized congressional support for electric vehicles and the infrastructure needed to support them.Given that Tesla and General Motors are by far the top producers of electric vehicles, you’d expect their executives to be thrilled. G.M. has made a huge commitment to an electric vehicle future, and has pledged to have 20 new models on sale by 2023. It lobbied to preserve the incentives.But Tesla has been conspicuously silent on the law. And G.M.’s response has been qualified. A company spokesman, Patrick E. Morrissey, said G.M. supports continuing the electric vehicle credit “as an important customer benefit that can help accelerate the acceptance of electric vehicles,” but added, “We believe additional reform to the E.V. tax credit would help grow the market for of electric vehicles even more.”That’s because as now structured, the tax credit puts Tesla and G.M. at a competitive disadvantage, especially compared with foreign rivals who are just starting to ramp up electric vehicle sales in the United States. The tax credit begins to phase out after a company sells 200,000 electric vehicles — a threshold both Tesla and G.M. are expected to reach this year.Meanwhile, buyers of electric BMWs, Volkswagens and Volvos will continue to get the full $7,500 credit. All of those manufacturers have announced aggressive sales plans for electric vehicles in the United States but so far have sold relatively few of themThe 200,000 limit on the tax credit was added in 2009 when Congress extended incentives for plug-in vehicles passed during the George W. Bush administration, as a way to move the nation toward energy independence. Tesla and G.M., far ahead of their rivals in investing in and promoting electric vehicles, have benefited from the tax credit in the intervening years, but will lose it soon, just as the market is becoming more competitive — in effect, penalizing them for being ahead of the curve.Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has been railing against the way the credit is structured, saying the perception that Tesla benefits from federal tax handouts “drives me crazy.”Most presidents will at some point benefit from a surging economy and stock market, but none has claimed more credit for them than Donald J. Trump, as he did again during this week’s State of the Union address. Among the highlights:• “$8 trillion and more” in stock market gains.WASHINGTON — The long-simmering friction between President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions erupted into an extraordinary public face-off on Wednesday as the investigation into Russia’s election interference roiled the administration and raised new questions about the independence of law enforcement agencies.Mr. Trump excoriated Mr. Sessions for not ordering his own investigation into the handling of the Russia inquiry during its early months, calling his attorney general “DISGRACEFUL” in a lacerating Twitter post. Mr. Sessions, who has absorbed blows from the White House since last year mostly in silence, responded with a rare statement defending his “integrity and honor.”The back-and-forth, unthinkable in previous administrations, came during a week of unrest at the White House. As the president railed about the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III’s Russia investigation, his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, was stripped of his top-secret security clearance. One of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, Hope Hicks, announced that she will step down as communications director. And Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman was back in court pleading not guilty to new charges.The schism between Mr. Trump and his attorney general has become a persistent subplot of his administration, an almost Shakespearean rift between a president and one of his earliest and strongest supporters. Mr. Sessions was the first senator to back Mr. Trump’s candidacy but has fallen out of favor because the president wanted an attorney general who would protect him and investigate his political enemies.The two rarely speak except in formal meetings, and both sides describe the relationship as broken. In between the president’s tweet and Mr. Sessions’s response on Wednesday, the two stood awkwardly yards apart at a Capitol memorial service honoring the Rev. Billy Graham. Mr. Trump later fumed in the Oval Office about Mr. Sessions’s statement, according to advisers, once again leaving the attorney general’s fate in question.But the president’s options are constrained, advisers said, because he recognizes that he would have a difficult time winning Senate confirmation for a replacement. Mr. Sessions served there for 20 years, and his former colleagues have bristled at Mr. Trump’s attacks. Any dismissal of Mr. Sessions would be taken by Democrats and even some Republicans as an effort to seize control of the Russia investigation and could trigger a bipartisan backlash.The exchange on Wednesday began when the president lashed out at Mr. Sessions for seeming to suggest that the Justice Department’s inspector general would look into Republican charges of misconduct in the opening stage of the Russia investigation rather than opening his own examination.“Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL!”Republicans have accused Justice Department and F.B.I. officials of abusing their powers while President Barack Obama was still in office by using information from a dossier prepared by a former British spy paid by Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to justify surveillance of a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page. Officials did not fully inform the court that issues warrants under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, of the origin of the information, Republicans complained. Democrats have called that a distortion and distraction.The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, was appointed by Mr. Obama in 2012, but previously worked for the Justice Department under Republican and Democratic presidents. He has already been investigating how James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director until Mr. Trump fired him last spring, handled the inquiry into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.Mr. Sessions seemed to take umbrage at the president’s latest message. “We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” he said in his statement.“As long as I am the attorney general,” he added, “I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”Mr. Sessions’s response, polite but pointed, was all the more striking because he had largely kept quiet after previous attacks by the president. Mr. Trump has never forgiven Mr. Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, a decision that helped lead to the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Trump has publicly called Mr. Sessions “weak” and said he would not have appointed him had he known Mr. Sessions would step aside.His latest eruption was prompted by Mr. Sessions’s comment on Tuesday that if a FISA surveillance warrant was wrongfully obtained, the matter would be “investigated” by the department’s inspector general. His comment was interpreted as confirmation that the inspector general had opened a second official inquiry on top of the Comey review.But Mr. Sessions only meant to reiterate what he said after a memo drafted by House Republicans was released alleging abuse of the FISA process. At the time, Mr. Sessions said he would “forward to appropriate D.O.J. components all information I receive from Congress regarding this.”The nuance was lost on Mr. Trump, who among other things did not seem to understand that an attorney general cannot order an inspector general to investigate anything, only refer information.“The president’s tweet reveals that he really doesn’t understand how the government works and how the Justice Department works,” said Michael Bromwich, a former department inspector general.He added that the inspector general’s office has a reputation for professionalism. “It’s incredibly demoralizing to have the chief executive of the government not only not understand and appreciate what you do, but attack what you do on a constant basis,” Mr. Bromwich said.Inspectors general at cabinet agencies are kept separate to preserve their independence. Paul Light, a New York University professor and specialist on the offices, recalled that President Ronald Reagan fired all of the inspectors general but was forced by Congress to rehire some of them. “They have protections in statutes against arbitrary dismissal,” he said.After Mr. Trump’s tweet, Mr. Horowitz, the inspector general, received support from Republicans, including Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee that confirmed him.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and California are fighting a furious multifront legal war, and every week seems to bring a new courtroom battle.“It’s bloody combat,” Jessica Levinson, who teaches at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday. “This isn’t a cold war. It’s a scorching hot war. And that’s politically expedient for both sides.”The state has filed 29 lawsuits against the federal government since President Trump took office, on issues including immigration, the environment and voting rights.“Government by litigation isn’t what the American people voted for,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Monday, “and attempting to thwart an administration’s elected agenda through endless, meritless lawsuits is a dangerous precedent.”That same day, Mr. Sessions filed suit against the state, accusing it of interfering with the sale of federal lands. It followed a separate suit last month to block three state laws that sought to protect unauthorized immigrants.Clashes between states and the federal government are nothing new, said Ilya Somin, a law professor at George Mason University.“This has happened throughout American history, but under the Obama and Trump administrations it has happened more often,” he said.In the Obama years, red states tried to strike down the heart of the Affordable Care Act and succeeded in blocking a major immigration program. “Now we see the blue states battling Trump over sanctuary cities, the census and other issues,” Professor Somin said.Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, used to say that his job description as the state’s attorney general was simple: “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, has said that his attitude is slightly different. “We don’t wake up in the morning looking to pick a fight with the Trump administration,” he said. “But we will do what is necessary to defend our values.”Texas sued the Obama administration at least 48 times, according to a survey conducted by The Texas Tribune. The Trump administration is a little more than a year old, and California is already within striking distance of those numbers.California has been doing well in court, winning more than a dozen rulings against the administration. Many of those victories came from federal judges in the state, and Mr. Sessions may have been referring to them when he complained about “ideological judging.”The state is also likely to receive receptive hearings when its cases reach the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, which has been a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s criticism. The Supreme Court is a more attractive forum from the administration’s perspective, but the justices agree to hear very few cases.The lawsuits all have distinct features, but collectively they pose fascinating questions about the Constitution’s allocation of power between the federal government and the states. They also give rise to a teachable moment in legal opportunism.“Blue states and blue cities are making arguments about limited federal power that are traditionally associated with the political right,” Professor Somin said. “On the other hand, the Trump administration is staking out a very broad position on federal power.”On Monday, the Trump administration sued to strike down a state law that made it harder for the federal government to sell or transfer federal lands by giving a state commission the right of first refusal.The law was meant to protect the state’s natural resources, Mr. Becerra said. “Our public lands should not be on the auction block to the highest bidder,” he said in a statement.The administration’s legal arguments are substantial, drawing on the Constitution and the law under which California was admitted to the Union.Article IV of the Constitution, which is concerned with the relationship between the federal government and the states, includes the Property Clause: “The Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.”And the 1850 law admitting California to the Union, making it the 31st state, was explicit: “California is admitted into the Union upon the express condition that the people of said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall be impaired or questioned.”Professor Levinson said her preliminary assessment of the suit was that “it looks like the federal government has quite a strong argument.”But Prof. Michael Blumm, who teaches at Lewis and Clark Law School in Portland, Ore., said “it isn’t clear why the federal government claims it’s not possible to recognize a right of first refusal and carry out its other obligations.”He added, “Isn’t there some irony in a D.O.J. headed by an ardent states-rightser, Jeff Sessions, arguing for federal pre-emption of state authority under the Property Clause?”California has not yet filed its response to the suit. Based on the Trump administration’s complaint, though, the state law appears to be in trouble.Last month, the Trump administration sued California over parts of three so-called sanctuary laws protecting unauthorized immigrants. “Immigration law is the province of the federal government,” Mr. Sessions said in announcing the suit. But, he added, “California has enacted a number of laws designed to intentionally obstruct the work of our sworn immigration enforcement officers — to intentionally use every power it has to undermine duly-established immigration law in America.”One of the challenged laws, for instance, prohibits state officials from telling federal ones when undocumented immigrants are to be released from state custody.“The executive branch should be able to remove criminal aliens from a jail instead of your neighborhood,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement on Monday.Mr. Becerra responded: “We’re not going to let the Trump administration coerce us into doing the federal government’s job of enforcing federal immigration law. We’re in the business of public safety, not deportation.”A second challenged law requires state officials to inspect some facilities that house people detained on behalf of the federal government. A third restricts employers from cooperating with immigration officials.Legal experts differed about the strength of the administration’s suit. Professor Somin wrote that the legal questions were difficult but that “California ought to prevail on all three issues.”Writing in The Wall Street Journal, Prof. Josh Blackman, who teaches at South Texas College of Law, and Ilya Shapiro, a lawyer with the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said the federal government seemed to have the better of the legal argument as to two of the three state laws.“Resistance to unpopular federal laws — whether over tariffs or immigration, or marijuana, gambling, guns or a host of other areas of possible conflict — is permissible,” they wrote, “only within the bounds of federalism.”The administration’s lawsuit seems likely to give rise to a split decision, with courts upholding some but not all of the state’s laws.Last month, California sued the Trump administration over its decision to add a question about citizenship to the forms to be used in the 2020 census. Several other states have filed a separate suit.The Constitution requires an “actual enumeration” of the nation’s residents every 10 years. The information gathered is used to allocate congressional seats and to disburse federal money.“The federal government should have an accurate count of who can legally vote in our federal elections,” Mr. Sessions said on Monday.The current president may be completely uninterested in cultivating a number of traditional political skills — among them a sense of discretion and at least the semblance of self-control — but he has an uncanny feel for political symbolism, especially when it comes to the role of manufacturing in the United States. Factory work provides a diminishing share of working-class jobs: There were 43,000 iron and steelworkers last year, compared with almost 2 million hospital and home health aides. But to hear President Trump tell it, the factory workers are the ones who matter most. Just last week, he declared steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, tweeting that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”Joshua B. Freeman’s rich and ambitious “Behemoth: A History of the Factory and the Making of the Modern World” depicts a world in retreat that still looms large in the national imagination. “Behemoth” is more than an economic history, or a chronicle of architectural feats and labor movements. Freeman, a professor at Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY, traces the rise of the factory and how it became entwined with Enlightenment ideas of progress — “the notion that through human effort and rationality the world could be transformed toward greater abundance, well-being and moral order.”